This is Jockel Podcast number 129.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Winlic.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
Cry had risen for the reserve, and it must come as soon as possible.
We ran what we could run.
Our Lieutenant Colonel Fell killed almost at the first.
Beyond this, we lost our major, and indeed all of the officers, but three, only.
We had crossed two successive ditches which lay in an orchard to the left of the first
houses in, and we were beginning to form in front of the village.
But there was no standing of it.
Besides the general cannon fire, such as hardly can be imagined.
There was also a reign of K-shot upon this battalion of which I, as there was no Colonel
left, had to take command.
A third battalion of the royal Prussian foot guards, which had already made several of our
regiments past that same kind of muster, gave at a distance of 80 paces, the liveliest
fire upon us.
It stood as if on the parade ground that third battalion, and waited for us without stirring.
The Austrian regimen at our right hand could not get itself formed properly because of the
houses.
It was standing 30 deep, and sometimes it's shots hit us in the back.
And my left the Austrian regimen ran its way, and I was glad of that in comparison.
By no method or effort could I get the dragons who stood 50 yards to the rear of me to cut
in a little and help me out.
My soldiers who were still tired from running had no cannon support, were scattered,
if you were in number and were mainly fighting out of solidness.
It was more out of honor than the notion of doing good in the affair that prevented us
from running off.
Finally, two officers of the grenadiers brought me what they still had.
Among Garyans, two were luckily got together, but at last we've all helped and the remnants
of my own brave battalion.
I drew back.
And that right there is a report from Charles Joseph Lomoral.
The Prince, Prince Deling, I believe is how you say it, who is a captain in the Austrian
army fighting against the Prussians during the seven years war.
A particular battle was the battle of Luth, which took place on December 5th, 1757.
Where the Austrians suffered about 22,000 casualties about one-third of their forces.
That was at the hands of the Prussian army who interestingly had about half the number of
troops as the Austrians.
And the Prussian army was led by a guy by the name of King Frederick II who became known
as Frederick the Great.
And you know this type of fighting was brutal.
And it's sort of the classic vision of the old European infantry tactics like what
you picture troops lined up by rank marching forward to close with the enemy.
In what often became just a test of will and courage.
And who's will and who's courage was stronger, who would drive forward and who is going
to back now and who's going to run away.
But on top of that will encourage you also there was still maneuvers happening out there.
And the movements were centralized.
But the maneuvers were still happening.
And the battle field still required there to be leadership.
So maneuver these elements around to assess what was happening and then to drive the troops
to get the job done leadership was absolutely required in one of the most respected leaders
of this era was the leader at that battle of the Prussians, Frederick the Great.
Now Frederick the Great, interesting character, born in 1712 his father, Frederick William.
And he seemed like one of those kind of tyrannical fathers that really pushed his son
with extreme discipline and all that.
And guess what, young Frederick didn't like it.
Didn't like it.
Wasn't in to that.
You know what he was into?
Music, literature.
That's what he was into.
And he actually plotted an escape to England.
And he had a couple of his buddies helped him out.
Had a little plan, put the plan together.
I'm going to get away from my tyrannical dad who's trying to, you know, turn me into this
warm-ongering guy and the plot caught foiled.
And the king actually captured one of the two friends that was helping young Frederick
and incented him to death.
And young Frederick had to watch his friend who had tried to help him get beheaded.
Yeah.
And despite that, he eventually got on board with becoming a military leader and become
in King and he gained reputation for being extremely aggressive on the battlefield.
And there's a good quote.
I think, no, not only had a good quote about him, which was something along the lines
of if Frederick the Great was still here, we wouldn't be here.
So he got a lot of respect.
And he led very successful campaigns all over Europe.
He was known for having an extremely hard work ethic, strong work ethic.
Interestingly, he woke up at either four or five o'clock in the morning every morning.
So he was one of those guys.
And another interesting thing at a time when the Royals all over Europe and the world
when they kind of flaunted their riches, he wasn't like that.
He was kind of like a low profile guy.
He allowed free speech.
He allowed people to even insult him, which was, you know, I mean, obviously his old man
didn't have any problem just tossing out the death sentence.
But there was a story about him where there was like a poster hung up that somebody
had done a drawing that made him kind of look like a buffoon.
And he was going through this village where this thing was hung up.
And he kind of went to see what all this commotion, all these people around.
He went to see what all the commotion was about.
And he saw this sign hanging up on a post.
And his comment was, hey, lower that sign down a little bit so people don't hurt their
next while they're looking at us.
So he's one of those guys.
And you know, so we kind of had a Z ego in Czech, which is, which is definitely good.
And his, his tactics, like I said, I mean, there's still even when you had these rigid
sort of ranks in battles, you still had to maneuver the out, the elements around, the
battlefield and his tactics were based in mobility and being able to move quickly, be
able to move more quickly than the enemy.
And he focused on drill and more drilling.
And this is another interesting thing.
In his opinion, he, because drill, I don't know if you know this, but when we say drill
in the military, we're talking about, you ever seen like a drill team with the rifles
and they march and everything's perfect.
A few of the men at the beginning.
Remember that movie?
At the beginning, it's a cool, everyone's important.
Like, that's what it is.
I can't remember that.
I've definitely seen the movie, but I can't remember that particular part.
But yeah, that's what drill is.
So when people talk about drill, that's what they're talking about.
And he was sent, he was of the opinion that people often misstook drill for the art of
war.
He's no, they're two different things.
And they're important.
And there's a reason why you do drill.
And it teaches you certain things.
It teaches you a lot about discipline.
It teaches you about responding to orders quickly.
It teaches you how to work together.
It's teams.
So there's definitely a reason for drill, but that is not the art of war at all.
So at age 35, he was, he had been sick and he was recovering from an illness, but he was,
I guess, still a little bit down.
So he was doing what he could.
And in this case, it meant that he wrote down some of his principles.
And the first version of it was called the instruction of Frederick the Great to his generals.
And that piece was kind of revised.
And the title was eventually changed to general principles of war.
And we're going to look at that book today and see what we can learn from Frederick the
Great.
And I was actually, I'm always surprised at how much I have to learn and how much I can
learn from people that fought several hundred years ago and led several hundred years
ago.
It's amazing.
What you can learn from these folks.
All right.
Here we go.
Going to the book.
This section is called the capabilities of crushing troops and their particular merit.
The greatest force of the Prussian army resides in their wonderful regularity, which
long custom has made a habit.
In exact obedience and in the bravery of the troops, the discipline of these troops, now
evolved into habit, has such effect that in the greatest confusion of an action and the
most evident perils, their disorder is still more orderly than the good order of their enemies.
So there you go.
This is this is discipline equals freedom in whatever 17 something.
If you think about what he's saying, his troops were so disciplined that even when
there's total chaos going on, in their worst state, they still are more square
away than the enemies because they're discipline is so strong.
Back to the book, consequently, small confusions are redressed in a moment and all evolutions
are made promptly.
It doesn't matter what you do to confuse them.
No problem.
We got discipline.
A general of other troops could be surprised in circumstances in which he would not be
if commanding questions.
Since he will find resources in the speed with which they form and maneuver in the presence
of the enemy.
And this is something that I say all the time, was that like in a seal platoon, in my seal
platoon, in my seal task unit, in an army or a Marine Corps infantry platoon, the discipline
that they have gives them more freedom on the battlefield because they can react to things
quicker.
Exactly what we're talking about.
Exactly.
The great realized.
Back to the book, Prussians, Discipline, renders these troops capable of executing the most
difficult maneuvers, such as traversing a wood and battle without losing their files or
distances, advancing in close order at double time, forming with promptness, reversing
their directions suddenly to fall on the flank of the enemy, gaining an advantage by
a forced march and finally in surpassing the enemy in constant sea and fortitude.
Discipline equals freedom.
I'm glad he didn't use that title.
He could have.
Now he's got something in here.
And when I initially read this part, I was like, well, that's a little bit off of my thoughts,
but he comes back to it later and will get to that part.
I mean, actually, when he gets to this part talking about decentralized command, because
he retox about something that's a little bit opposite of what I usually say.
So here we go back to the book.
Obedience to the officers and subordination is so exact that no one ever questions an order.
Hours are observed exactly and however little a general knows how to make himself obeyed,
he is always sure to be.
No one ever reasons about the possibility of an enterprise.
And finally, it's accomplishment is never disparate of.
So what he's saying there is like everyone just listens to me.
That's what everyone just listens.
And no one questions the orders.
And we're going to get to later where he actually, there's two things.
Number one, he really takes care of his people.
So they listen to him because he takes care of him.
It's not because he barks orders of him.
It's not, it's that he really cares about them and he takes care of them.
And the other thing he talks, and he'll talk later about this is how getting input from
people is important.
So even though he lays that out there, I think that's almost like a little macho.
He's throwing some macho.
Hey, look at me, everyone just listens to me.
That's the way to, I don't know if you noticed this when we had Colonel Fife on the podcast.
And I was talking about this with Dave Burke the other day.
When we first were talking with Colonel Fife, he was saying, yeah, well, everyone just
did what I told him to do.
Now it's kind of like, wow, that, I always say that that doesn't really work.
I don't want something to think about this to myself.
He says, yeah, people just don't want to do it.
They do it.
That's what made my group, my unit so good.
And I was like, wow.
And then he went into it.
And when he went into it, all the answers were there.
He was like, no, no, no, no.
I cared about my guys.
And then he went into, I don't know if you remember this.
He went into this part about where he said, look, if you're in a tank and you tell someone
to get out of the tank, when the tanks are hitting bullets are hitting the tank, yeah, and
go fix the track.
You think they're going to do that?
Just could you tell them to?
Not, not if you don't take care of not if they don't say, so even though he initially
said kind of like what Frederick the greatest, hey, people are just going to listen to
me.
Both saying the same kind of thing, but both of them have a lot more depth behind that reaction
from their troops.
So when, whenever somebody hears something like that, it's like, no, it's not true.
It doesn't work as a matter of fact, there's a chapter in the new book coming out
that late for my wrote.
And Dave's talking about this one CEO that we're working with.
That's kind of like quoting Patton, like discipline is the ultimate.
And same thing, Dave's talking the guy like, hey, that's not the way the military works.
And he believed that when he would hear this kind of thing, this is like a macho thing to
say, right?
Is that the right word?
I don't know if that's the right word.
It's a, it's a bold statement.
Hey, my troops just listen to me.
Right?
It's not true.
There's so much more depth.
And that makes that actually happen.
All right, going back to the book, the Prussians are superior to their enemies in
Constancy, since the officers who have no other profession nor other fortune to hope
from accept their arms, animate themselves with ambition and a gallantry beyond all test.
The soldier has a confidence in himself.
Because he makes it a point of honor to never give way.
So I just, we were working with a company doing a, doing an FTX training.
You know, so we're out in the field.
And I was talking about cover move.
And I said, if you're walking while you're covering your field of fire from a level of
one to ten, how well can you do it?
Any other people, like I don't know five, six.
Because when you're walking, you can't really, you know, you got to look where you're
walking or look where everyone else is doing.
You, you can't just look at your field of fire.
You can't just look at your field of fire, which is where you're looking for threats.
I said, when you do cover move and you stop and you get behind some cover and then you
just your whole job is just to look, how good you do one to ten.
And everyone's like ten.
And I said, yeah.
And that's kind of the same thing here where you get this guy.
When you have people that their whole life is just dedicated to one thing.
Well, then they're going to do it good.
These, these, these, uh, crushing officers who had nothing else going for them other than
being in the military.
Yeah.
So that's why I was looking at people asking me, should I start another job, all
of my active duty?
And quite frankly, my answer is no.
It's, if you do, it's got to be so on the side that it doesn't interfere at all with
your job as being, uh, being in the military.
It's just too hard to balance two things.
Can you give a little advice?
Can you maybe set something up on the side?
Yeah, but dedicate focus on, focus on what you're doing a hundred percent.
There's nothing else that I don't know.
I just don't, I don't see that as working out very well.
I say, just focus on what you're doing.
That's my opinion.
Some people pull it off.
I've never known anyone that pulled it off.
Well, maybe I could think of some.
Most people that had some kind of side gig going on, the military was their side gig
to, you know, they weren't just in the game.
Yeah.
They, they, they, they, they, yeah.
It's like, no, do your job.
Yeah.
Do it well.
You know, that doesn't go with if you're working for some corporation.
Then you can pull it off, right?
You can do something on the side, depends on the job.
But I don't know.
It seems like if you're the boss of, let's say you had a team, right?
They're like, you know, their, you know, productivity, you know, all this stuff.
And then you find out one team member is basically splitting his time, you know, I don't
know, doing something else.
It's kind of like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
If we're here, China, if it's interfering, but most jobs aren't twenty four hours to,
it's not really even true.
Yeah, you know what? I think you can pull it off. You can pull off way easier in any other job than in the military
You can have something going on on this side
Yeah, because the military's the the job where it's like yeah 24 hours a day
Yeah
Are you think are you saying in a combat scenario?
We're talking about just in general, you know just in general
And I shouldn't say that you know there's a lot of jobs when I work with companies
There's people that are they're doing 24 hours a day. They're in the game. Yeah, so if you're in one of those kind of jobs
Don't get a side job and aren't they like or
Self-approach that you can do it. It's hard to pull off them. It's hard to pull off
But our job's in the military that are that are pretty mellow
They're all where you can come in you can come in. Yeah, you know, they're us
So it gets kind of like if you're doing that baby you can do it. Yeah, you're thinking of you like you're
Yeah, but I'm also thinking about like guys and guys in this he'll teams yeah
That's what the guys in this he'll times that had some kind of side hustle going on
Generally they weren't fully in the game, you know, that's just the way it is
Maybe there's some guys that I didn't even know about
Yeah, that did it but most people like hey if you're out buying houses in flipping houses
You know you can kind of do that when you're in the military because you're doing some hard work on the weekends
And that's cool get a little rental property going hey right on I did that
Yeah, but it wasn't it wasn't it literally interfered zero
With my primary job, which was getting off
All right back to the book many have been seen to fight even when wound did since the organization in general
Proud of its past brave engagements considers that any soldier who is shown the least cowardice
Inaction a front sit
Like that so you have that attitude you have that
That culture inside your organization. It's a real thing
We don't back down we keep fighting hard
That's what we do
All right now we talk a little bit about projects of campaign
One should know ones enemies their alliances their resources and the nature of their country in order to plan a campaign
One should know what to expect of one's friends
What resources one has oneself and see the future effects to determine what one has to fear or hope from political maneuvers
We've heard this over and over again
Understand your enemy
Back to the book extravagant projects of campaign are worthless
I call extravagant those which require you to make penetrations or those which reduce you to a
To-a-to-rigid defense
Penetrations are worthless because in pushing too far into the enemy's country you weaken yourself
Your communications become very difficult to maintain on account of their length and in order to make a
Shured conquest. It is necessary always to proceed within the rules and here's the rules to advance
Establish yourself silently to advance again
to establish yourself the same and always to prepare
to have within your reach of your army your resources and your requirements so there he's saying
And make sure you're ready and if you've got to extend yourself don't extend yourself too far
That's that's what he's saying that's that's very good advice
Now he also says this no, so that's going on the offense now. There's a dichotomy here
Which we talk about dichotomy a lot
There's a dichotomy here because he's saying hey look you got to be careful going on super
Super far distant offense and extending yourself too far but then he says this back to the book
Projects of absolute defensive are not practical
Because while wishing to close yourself in strong camps the enemy will
Invele up you to preview of your sustenance from the rear and to blind you to lose ground while disheartening your troops
So while you're digging in guess what the enemy's gonna maneuver on you and cut and cut you off now back to the book I prefer
To this conduct of the offensive with the hazard of losing the battle
Since this will not be more fatal then you're retreat and your timid defensive so he's saying there
He'd rather be aggressive be lean towards being me at more aggressive than leading towards being more defensive and he and he says why in the one
You lose ground by withdrawing and soldiers by desertion and you have no hope
So if you go on the defense that's what happens you lose ground you lose soldiers and you have no hope
Jada now on the offense he says in the other you do not risk more and
If you are fortunate you can hope for the most brilliant success. What is he saying there attack?
That's what he's saying I
agree with that
Again, there's a dichotomy there because he's saying attack, but the the previous paragraph he's saying don't over extend yourself
This is why we write in a book called the dichotomy leadership because you have to find that balance
All right
Back to the book. I am now coming to what I call the defensive which turns into the offensive the greatest
Secret of war and the masterpiece of a skillful general is to starve his enemy
Hunger exhaust men more surely than courage and you will succeed with less risk than by fighting
But since it is very rare that a war is ended by the capture of a depot and matters are only decided by great battles
It is necessary to employ all these means to attain this object
Starving your enemy. You don't know it's the interestingly. You don't know what's thinking about when that pop into my mind
Is
When you're when you're dealing with relationships one of the best ways to like win in a relationship scenario
Is you starve the other person of attention
What do you mean? So
Two two yeah to win so like when you what's the worst thing you can do to your kid when your kid is doing something bad
Give it attention yeah, the worst thing you can do is yeah, as give it attention the best thing you can do is
Starving of attention. Yeah, I just thought that was kind of interesting and another thing is like in jujitsu
You're you starve the person of energy right you you make them use their energy and once they're out of energy. They're done
Yeah, yeah
Yes, I guess it depends on what you mean by win the relationship. Yeah, I guess I didn't really phrase that correctly, but I was thinking of
What we generally do
When we clarify that I think I just figured it out a little bit what we generally do is if we've got a problem in relationship
What do we do we go to fight it go to war?
The better thing maybe just to starve
Starvitt a little bit how do you start it start it from attention right?
I think we talked about I think it was last week
There's someone called asked like how do you get vengeance and I was like
Maybe the best thing the best vengeance to give us
Starvim of attention. Yeah, don't even give it to them. Yeah, you're gonna that's the win
Yeah, so I guess it's not good to put that in perspective with your kids right?
Really not a good thing any battles the naryl interrelation chips sure like yeah, I think yeah, and you could definitely
Go too far with that. Oh, yeah, yeah, so no. I'm not saying starv. I guess if you're if you're talking about
I guess more than anything else. I'm gonna even say it's good or bad. I'm saying it's something to be aware of that you can use attention
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
They attention to your kids
Because when you say relationship you automatically assume
wife kids
Girlfriend boyfriend in a thing. I don't automatically assume that yeah, well, I think it's like yeah, okay
In any any battle situation we're like yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm just saying it's another tool
Yeah, it's a good one. Yeah, it's a good one. It is a good one
All right here he talks about and and by the way, obviously I'm cutting out big chunks and what's interesting is
He talks about heat for each one of these
Little principles that he talks about he actually goes through specific historical battles that happened and how they unfolded but
If you want to read those you should get the book, but
I wanted to get through all the principles so here we go. It's kind of skipping the the battles and his his battles
They're not they're not like these first person kind of accounts that are really moving they're more
Just historical perspective hey here's and he wasn't even at all out all of them
You know some of he said this is what happened in this place and this is what happened in this other place
Are you talking here about rest camps
The duty of the general in these sort of camps is to restore his army and
Personally to oversee order and discipline the cavalry and infantry should be visited often and examine to determine if the first is well-nurged and if these two cores are complete
So take care of your people
Likewise the troops should be exercised frequently
Cavalry as well as infantry and the general should be
Should often be present to praise the ones to criticize the others and to see with his own eyes
That the orders which are found in my institution military are observed exactly
The camp guards should be visited to see if they are vigilant if the officer's attentive or if he is
Negligent to be extremely strict so that the mounted centuries will not allow anyone to enter the camp without
Examining and announcing him and to prevent desertion by all means
That I have indicated previously. He talks about
One of the problems they have is people deserting and he goes into how do you stop people from deserting and it's
That's what he's referring to there things that keep in everyone busy making sure that they're well fed
He talks about those kind of things so that's what he's referring to
God exercise frequently gotta keep busy and you have to inspect you have to get eyes on he says with your own eyes
So when you're the leader you just can't throw that order out there and expect it's all gonna happen the way you expected it to
Not gonna happen you gotta go expected with your own eyes
Back to the book no, before I go back to the book he's gonna talk about
How important it is to understand the battlefield and the terrain here we go knowledge of the country
Is to a general what a rifle is to an infantryman and what the rules of arithmetic are to a geomactrition
If he does not know the country he will do nothing but make gross mistakes without this without this knowledge his projects
Be them otherwise admirable become ridiculous and often impracticable
Therefore study the country where you are going to act
When it's desired to apply oneself to this essential part of war the most detailed and exact maps of the country that can be found are taken in examined and
re-examined frequently
If it is not in time of war the places are visited camps are chosen roads are examined the mayors of the villages the butchers and the farmers are
Talk to one becomes familiar with the footpaths and the depth of the wood
Their nature and the depth of the rivers their practical marshes and
Those which are not and one observes in this study to distinguish carefully between the conditions of the marshes and the streams in the different seasons of the year
It cannot be said that a stream is
impracticable in the month of August because it had been in the month of April
The road is chosen to be taken on such and such a march the number of columns in which the march can be made and
All the strong camping places found on the route are examined to see if they can be used
Gather your intel
This is critical
on the battlefield and my first deployment
To Iraq I didn't do this as much as I should have because we be going to a place for the first time and we go there
We'd get a quick kind of
Information intelligence would come in and we'd okay, we're gonna we find out what this guy is and we do a quick map study
You know we do a map study, but it wasn't as thorough as as when we were in a body for six straight months and you actually just knew where you were
I taught and I somebody just hit me up on Twitter talking about this, but there was a guy from the first the 506
A company commander. He was awesome and he videoed he had video cameras in his humvies and so when he's out driving around Ramadi
He would record it and then when he got back he just watched it over and over again so he knew every little detail
Yeah, and that's what you want to do that it's so important to know where you are and understand the terrain
Okay, now we're gonna talk about something it's it's a it's a French word
And I don't speak French by the way, I dig it. I looked it up
I'm still gonna murder it. I apologize
Here it cool. It looks like poop do you oil but the way you actually say it is
Cudeo okay, so Cudeo and it's actually used quite a bit so I had to like run a couple rehearsals on it. How do you spell it?
Coup which which I knew that one right cool right there's a coup and then d apostrophe
O-e-i-l
Cudeo and sometimes they say that I could a but I like that that some people put a little on the end of it
I like that because it's a little bit more distinct so that's what I'm doing okay
And what that means it it
It translates directly. I believe to stroke of the iron what it means is like a quick glance. Oh Cudeo
So you just take a quick glance at something and you understand it think about the power of this
The Cudeo of a general is the talent which great men have of conceiving in a moment all the
Advantage of the terrain and the use that they can make of it with their army
When you are accustomed to the size of your army you will soon
You soon form your Cudeo with reference to it and habit teaches you the ground
That you can occupy with a certain number of troops
So what do you say there's you got a practice you got a practice practice practice and that's
What makes you good at it you start to be able to size things up right?
You start to look at situations and the more you get put in those situations the better you can size them
Think about when you first started as a balancer
Right when you first started as a balancer and you look at something and you might think oh what's this guy gonna do?
I then a year how long will your balancer for?
7 years. Okay, so by like the 6th year you're looking at situations like okay
I can see that guy's gonna gotta get that guy out of here. You you just get better at your job
Yeah, you're you're Kudeo you're way of just looking at things in a certain
Get sharper. Yeah, that's very important. Sure
Oh speaking of which back to the book the Kudeo is of great importance on two occasions
The first is when you encounter the enemy on your march and are obliged to choose ground on which to fight instantly
As I have remarked with a single square mile a hundred different orders of battle can be formed
This is why you're her so this is also why you think you think about when you're patrolling
You're looking around at the terrain and you're going okay if we get contact from over there
We can go into this direction if we get contact from over there we can get covered behind this
This berm or go behind this building if you're thinking about that even you go into
Yeah, you go to restaurant you're like okay where the exits that's exactly what you're doing
Where are the exits if someone comes in the front here's our emergency if someone comes in the back here's what I'm gonna do
You just do a quick assessment. That's all I'm saying. Yeah little Kudeo. Yeah
The clever general perceives the advantages of terrain instantly
He gains advantage from the slightest hillock from a tiny marsh
He advances or he advances or withdraws a wing to gain superiority
He strengthens and eases either his left or his right moves ahead to the or to the rear and profits from the mirrorist
Baguettelles
Had to look that word up by the way
What is baguettelles baguettelles it's something of little value
So what he's saying is
If you're good you look at even like a little baguettelles or something that's kind of meaningless and you can take advantage of it
Yeah
If you think about in jjitsu when a guy if you're good at jjitsu and a guy moves his arm just a little bit like a
Crop I would say like across the center of their chest. Yes, if they do that
That's only an inch right to be like here. I'm okay here. I'm not okay
When you're good you can take advantage of that. That's a good example. I know
So a little jjitsu an echo make you happy
Back to the book the king the kuda ya
Is required of the general when the enemy is found in position and must be attacked
Whoever has the best kuda ya will perceive at first glance the weak spot of the enemy and attack him there
The latter is a result of experience
And you can only get experience through two things training or actual experience
Talk about that at the master. Yes, like if you want to be good
You can get good through experience
Or you can get good through training now there's some things that only experience will give you you can really make up a lot of ground just from training
Yeah, like I think good like realistic
Oh, that's got a real skin
That's what separates the old martial arts from the new martial arts
There it does is the experience was close the experience didn't used to be close to a real fight
Oh, the training yeah, yeah the old training experience didn't wasn't close to a real fight
Yes, it was like kada and
Remember those old things where it's like well when I hit you here
It's going to cause this reaction 100% yeah, that's like part of the practice
I know that's the been no
You know let me teach you the reactions that you will have
That's total
An actual guard that's a good way to kind of eval good a good way to evaluate when someone's like okay
This is all you deal with this attacker or whatever situation and then they demonstrate it and then
It takes a big involvement in like big involvement from the attacker person, you know in the demonstrations like whoa
That might not happen that might not happen
I remember there was people teaching me that if you hit someone in the neck with like a karate chop straight up
That would they were teaching me this if you hit someone in the neck
It's gonna knock them out. That's what they were saying
And those part of it that was part of the whole thing
Hey, if you get him here boom and I was young and I didn't even know you did to at the time
But I've been in a lot of fights when I was a kid. You know we were in the streets and I was like
I don't think that's actually gonna work do it to me
And the dudes karate chop and me in the neck
You didn't have any
Didn't do anything
I mean, it doesn't give you a little flash. I mean it gives you a look like a little tiny
But he's trying to knock me out now because I'm calling him out right? He's given it all
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, so
They're debunked yeah
debunked real quick you know those ones where the wait was it in the front?
Yeah, right?
Like the right side of the neck man side of the neck that's gonna knock you out. He told me
Yeah, you know those ones where it could be the same thing where they hit they do it. It's like a karate chop or so and the hitch
But it's little bit in the front of your neck and I always see it
I've never seen it in real life. Well, they do it and they hit you right there and the guy knocks out
That's not true bro. It's so that's okay. I've never seen it right
I'll Joe Rogan Joe Rogan's post something that's like fake works arts and
And those are slapstick. Yeah, I know but he's like I could literally post these all day long
Is there somebody that's not there?
They're kind of funny. Yeah, it's weird though when you start talking about how
It went you get you first came around and people had been training in you know
Ons whatever traditional martial art for 20 years and
All of a sudden like a white belt or a blue belt and you're too. Come and wrap them up now
I will say this if I trained whatever some traditional martial art and it's 1986 and you and I get in a fight
Yeah, you don't know anything. Yeah, you're gonna be in trouble because I at least know how to throw a punch
Yeah, possibly yeah possibly
Well, I mean there's advantages to hitting mitts. You know like you're because it's like
Yeah, you know how it feels to land a punch that spatial kind of
Anaccharide. Yes, do you have you develop learn how to develop power or?
We're talking about boxing. That's a whole different story because that's a real martial art and if you watch people change
You're gonna get knocked out sometimes
Yeah, but even like a karate situation like a guy who can who kick a bag like that guy
Does know how to kick by the way and there's some forms of karate. What is it?
Yeah, there's some forms of karate that are legit and they
They go get after it. That's what GSP's background was originally in okay. Oh, she yeah, yeah
Yeah, that's rough. Oh, it's rough. Yeah, no head strikes though. No head strikes. We're kind of a bummer
Yeah, I mean, I think it's like ham and grab the ghee grab your ghee and kick the crap out of your legs
Yeah, and punch you in the ginseng. Yeah, punch you in the ginseng. Yes, that's tough. Oh, no, if it's it's it's it's well
Let's say this it's a little bit closer to real. Yeah, right? So it's a little bit closer real. That's why it has some effectiveness
Yeah, the more closer you are to reel the more effective something is and that's the way it goes
all right
Speaking of training back to the book. It is on this exact knowledge of the terrain that is
Regulated the dispositions of the troops and the order of battle of the army
So it's again, he's still talking about being able to look quickly and assess how you're going to set up your
troops on the terrain our modern formations for combat for the most part are defective
Because they cast all in the same mold as I really like this part. He's saying look it's not always the same
What we do what we say right now is say everything lines up here realities that doesn't work
We can't do that if an army is really to be camped according to the rules of war
It is essential that each arm should be placed in a locality where it can act that means you got to have flexibility and what you're doing
That's what it means now he talks about
Detachments
How and why they should be made
There is an ancient rule of war that cannot be repeated often enough hold your forces together
Make no detachments and when you want to fight the enemy reassemble all your forces and see his every advantage
to make sure of your success
This rule is so certain that most of the generals who have neglected it have been punished promptly
So he's saying don't separate your forces and we I've talked about this before because that's what I believed are there times where you separate your forces?
Yes, there are you have to be prudent you have to be smart
And he he up here's the dichotomy he says the same thing the subject of detachments is extremely delicate
Nun should be made
Except for good reasons right?
Nun should be made except for good reasons if you're acting offensively and open enemy country and are only master of some strong point so
Again, this is something I talk about all the time once you've got your forces separated on the battlefield
It can get problematic very very quickly
So keep your forces consolidated as much as you can. How does that translate into the business world?
Well, be careful when you start breaking off a little chunks chunks of your company to go and explore new territory
Because when you break off chunks you get a little bit weaker
So don't do that. Oh
When you do it I'm not saying don't do it. He's not saying don't do it when you do it understand the risks that are being taken
That's what you have to do yeah, and it and that's good it is funny like you kind of
How you said that where it's like no you know basically the idea that it's like this is the hard and fast rule
But yeah, you don't kind of think yeah, that is a good way to put it because if you don't say it like that or you don't present it like that
It kind of in a way makes you think
Why can't bend that rule then you know and it kind of it's like two the people might be too cavalier about the whole thing about making the exception
Yeah, yeah, you're right. So you got I got a question for you
And how does it supply to jiu-jitsu?
Like what a specific move. Okay, so actually I'll use your example which has stuck with me from the first time you said it by the way
Jack that don't don't put your elbow cross your mid-divine your my eldest yeah, like where you're going
So the game you're like okay, and actually you gave an example of this, but okay, so the you
You should never put your arm across your chest. You should never do it
Every once in a while and I almost say not even every once in a while. I'll just say there is an exception
Yeah, where you know and I think you had a situation with Dean yeah, where you're like Dean
He messed you up, but you thought about it later. So no he told me later. Oh, okay. Oh, here
You have to do something that I've told you never to do here. You have to do it. That's from the mount. It's from you turn so far that you that there's an escape
Hmm, where I was gonna when I was gonna talk about this
With the way that supplies to jiu-jitsu this specifically you're talking about something else that does apply to jiu-jiu
This applies to jiu-jitsu picture this
Your your all one body, right?
When you're doing jiu-jitsu
It is
highly advantageous to keep your arms and your legs close to your body. Especially your arms, right?
You don't stick your arm out right? What happens when you stick your arm out? It's out there by itself and it's it's taking over
There's our locked as you take it over there. So so you don't do that you keep your arms and close to your body and that's where you
Fabio Fabio Santos he used to say make like your arms come out of your belly
Like you don't even have shoulders like your elbows just come out of your belly that's how you should keep your arms
And I I've always obeyed that rule
Accept there are times when yes, you gotta reach out and you gotta make another move happen
So as much as you can you keep your forces consolidated as a body as a human
You know occasionally you gotta stop on that. Yeah
So
But yeah, if you when you put it like that it's it's pretty clear that it's like hey, this isn't like some ambiguous rule
That's that's the rule. Keep keep your arms in that's the rule and then
Remember the golden child you ever watched the golden child?
I don't know okay anywhere. This is called the golden child this old school 80s movie, but he was like hey
Stand the path he was like hey you gotta walk on these like stumps in the dark and get this glass of water
Booter thing I think and he's like hey stand the path you gotta stand the path that's it
That's the what's the only advice I can give you I think there's something else, but that was it
So he could stay in the path right and there's this weird rope bridge and he
Right as he gets off the rope bridge first into flames and he's like hey
I thought you told me to stay on the path and he said yes, but you got to know when to break the rules
There you go, that's it right epic lessons learn Eddie Merdy
If you go didn't chill, it's too bad. All right, so no problem we can come up people from different angles
I'm sure there's someone that's in the podcast was like oh, yeah, oh, now I get it
It's too bad
Whoever you are out there
I got Charles's a god you're back
This is a great section. This is a great section the talents that a general must have
And then it talks about
Spies and rooses and strategums of war, but here we go talents
That a general must have a perfect general like Plato's Republic is a figment of the imagination
Either would be admirable, but is not characteristic of human nature to produce beings
Exempt from human weakness and defects
The finest medallions have a reverse side
Dang
I like that so yeah, there's no such thing as a perfect leader and everyone has weaknesses and
But then he says the finest medallions have a reverse side and I don't know if you remember
me saying this I've said it before I'll say it again
Oftentimes people's biggest strength is also their biggest weakness
Right, so if you got a guy that's super aggressive and that's what makes him such a good for a certain job
They also can be too aggressive and it ends so there's a bunch of examples like that
But the finest medallions have a reverse side even if you think about what your personal best quality is like you got to watch out because it can be out of balance
If you if you let it go too far
Now he says this but in spite of this awareness of our per in perfection
It is not less necessary to consider all the different talents that are needed by an accomplished general
These are the models that want attempts to imitate and which one would not try to approach if they were not presented to us
So he's like hey look even though we can't be perfect
We should still look and see what perfect is so that we can at least try and get there nothing wrong with that
Here we go
It is essential that a general should disemble while appearing to be occupied
So what he's saying is you got to detach a little bit
Working with the mind and working with the body and here he goes into a good list right here
Seacelessly suspicious
While affecting tranquility
So you act like you're calm, but you should constantly be suspicious of what is happening
Here's a solid one saving of the blood of his soldiers and not squandering it except for the most important interests
Take care of your people
Informed of everything that makes sense
Always on the lookout to deceive the enemy and careful not to be deceived himself
Make sense
In a word he should be more than industrious
Active and indifatigable
Not forgetting one thing to execute another and above all not despising those sorts of little details which pertain to great projects
So you got to be more than just like hardworking
You got to be more than
Active
And he goes into a little clarity around some of these
Here we go back to the decimulation of the general consists of the important art of hiding his thoughts
Now this is this is one of those things where people start to freak out a little bit
Because because these days everyone throws around the transparency word
Everyone should be transparent
Sir, it's like actually no you you shouldn't be transparent all the time
Yeah, and in fact, you know, that's why I talk about controlling your emotions all the time and that's why it's so powerful
If if you're getting mad at someone and you show them that you're getting mad
Well then you're giving away your hand and now they're gonna get mad at you and it's just a problem
So you need to you need to not do that you need to not be transparent
Yeah, and this he goes into brilliant explanations as to why you can't just be transparent
Hiding you need to be hiding his thoughts. Okay
He should be constantly on the stage and should appear most tranquil most tranquil when he is most occupied
For the whole army speculates on his looks on his gestures and on his mood
So when you're walking around and you're panicking guess what everyone on the team is looking at you going what it's going on
Why is the boss panicking
If he is seen to be more thoughtful than customary
The officers will believe he is incubating some project of consequence
If his manners uneasy they believe that affairs are going badly and they often imagine worse than the truth
Gotta stay calm
Gotta put on you gotta put on the little mask over your little emotions
And he says the these suppositions become the rumors of the army and this army gossip is certain to pass over to the enemies camp
It is necessary therefore that the personal conduct of the general should be so well-reasoned
That his dissimulation will be so profound that no one can ever penetrate it
If he fears that he cannot master his expression, so no one should ever know what you're thinking
Unless you want him to know that right unless you want to give it to him because I say this all the time
You can't just be without emotions. Yeah, you can't if you if you come to me and you're all mad
I just can't be like calm down. No, I can't do that. I need to I need to give you some of that
So I'm not saying never be emotional which is better control them they better be the emotions you want to show
And then he says this is funny
Talking about the the general if he fears that he cannot master his expression either he can pretend to be ill
or he should make an excuse of some personal trouble to explain his appearance to the public
You know, yeah, that's pretty funny
Yeah, that's actually when you think about it like a lot of us kind of do that like like uh, you know
I'm just tired or something like that, you know like if you like if girls crying or something or something like this
Oh, no, I just had something in my eye. It's kind of the same thing. You know they're like oh
It's disgusting here. Yeah, there's something else wrong with me that's understandable. You don't
So not me crying or nothing. Yeah, yeah, I was gonna bring up an excuse
But that's different you know and you're confused for your reason
You're doing your jet to someone and they're like yeah, you know, I just got moved to
That's like yeah, that's all you hear. Yeah, but
Yeah, excuse you don't tell me that
But that's
Interesting advice that shows you how important it is
You know if you're if you're willing to do like skip work because you don't want people to see your freaking out
I don't recommend that but hey, I can't come in to the music. Yeah, I think the opposite actually happens
Honour yeah, well that's what they'll say if they're hungover, you know what uh
People in the teams that would say people do the opposite and they have like problems at home
Like calling and say like yeah, I can't make it say what they're really doing it's like crying
Because they're gonna be scrapped with their old lady
All right
In this is this is brilliant right here above all
When he has received some bad news he should treat it as a trifle and show the number of resources which he has to retrieve it
It's basically good that's that's saying good when somebody go when you have when you receive some bad news
Ah good bring it that's he saying the exact same thing
Hmm
Speak of him accept with scorn and compare carefully the advantages of our troops over the others
So he's actually saying look
He's doing the opposite he's like I don't even hate my enemy, but I'll never let anyone know that I don't completely despise him
Right that's pretty funny
This is good if some detachment is unfortunate in the war he should examine the cause and
After having determined the reason for the fault he should instruct his officers concerning it
In this fashion a few minor misfortunes will never discourage the troops and they will always preserve the feeling of confidence in their ability
So when something goes wrong you don't freak out
You just look okay, well, let's take a look at what we're wrong there and then we'll fix it and then it won't be a problem anymore
That's how you handle a problem when someone doesn't do well
Back to the book secrecy is so necessary for a general that the ancients have even said that there was not a human being able to hold his tongue
But here's the reason for that if you form the finest plans in the world but devolves them your enemy will learn about them and then
It will be very easy for him to carry them
The general plan of the campaign should be communicated at most to the officer responsible for supplies
And the rest of the details should not be told to officers except when the time has come to execute them when there are generals
Detached and you must write to them the letter should be completely encode
If you're enemy intercepts one you will not have betrayed yourself
This is clearly something that applies
To that type of warfare back in the day, but it applies to
Life as well. I mean when you open your mouth
Yeah, yeah, you might as well just you might as well just put it on Twitter because everyone's gonna know about it
Yeah, yeah, the kind where and they always say it before they say something of
Consequence they'll say hey don't tell anyone this, but hey, I'm gonna do this or I feel this or whatever
And then sure enough they go and it's the same thing. Hey
I'm not supposed to tell you this, but you know
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, sure enough this back is bad bad completely just got told
I'm not supposed to tell you this. Yeah, that's why yeah, yeah
Because you don't say everything. Yeah, there's an old hardcore band burp gonna kill
I think let's say I think it was wrecking crew from Boston and they used to have
T-shirts just big letters on the t-shirts on the back
Trust no one
I add one yeah
Yeah, that actually sounds familiar like I might have seen a shirt like that before
I don't know if you saw that shirt maybe other people made it because they probably there's probably like 12 of those
Turns back
It's not something echoed you're also gonna see none the I work a Y yeah, yeah, yeah
No, probably not
Loose lips think ships, right? That's the deal. There you go. See, so we do say that you are correct
Yeah, back to the book. It is absolutely necessary to change your methods often and to imagine new decoys
If you always act in the same manner you will soon be interpreted for you are surrounded with 50,000 curious who wants to know everything that you think and how you're going to lead them
That's pretty cool. It's it's interesting what what's kind of interesting about that is he's not even talking about the enemy
He's talking about your own people. If you know you got to think a new things and this is clearly
This is something I always try to explain people in your jitsu is the thing that you're going for is not going to work
You you have to use the you have to use create new decoys you have to try new things or else you're not gonna catch people
It's a way it works
Now here we get Nick I'm glad that I'm the life and I just got done writing a book called the decodemulator ship because
Here we go the commander should practice kindness and
severity
Should appear friendly to shoulders
Speak to them on the march visit them while they are cooking ask them if they're well care for it and alleviate their needs if they have any
Officers without experience and wars should be treated kindly
They're good action should be praised small request should be granted them and they should
Not be treated in a manner and an overbearing manner manner
So there you go. It's like that's all good right? That's the kindness part
Which we're down with that and that's again that's why when I talked about why people would listen to this guy
One of the reasons because he took care of his people
He was out there seeing what problems they had how can we get those problem fixed?
And then he says but severity is maintained about everything regarding the service
The negligent officer is punished the man who answers back is made to feel your severity by being
Reprimanded with a foritative error that superiority gives
pillaging or argumentative soldiers or those who who's obedience is not immediate
immediate should be punished
So there you go dichotomy
You got to hold the line but at the same time don't hold that line so tight that it snaps
Which you can do
The general can even discuss the war with some of his core commanders who are the most intelligent and
Permit them to express their sentiments freely in conversations
So when I was talking about how he was just everyone listening to me
Blind obedience is what a required here. He's saying no actually listen to your people
Hmm if you find some good things among what they say you should not remark about it then but make use of it
When this has been done you should speak about it in the presence of many others
It was so and so who had this idea praise him for it
This modesty will gain the general the friendship of good thinking men and he will more easily
Find persons who will speak their sentiments sincerely to him boom so that thing that
Module thing in the beginning was not true. This is what's true. Yeah, you want to you want to have
He's the reason that he's doing this is because he wants people to speak their mind to him that the reason why he's doing this
Think about that
It's also it's also interesting that because I say this you're here me talk about how like it's
Whenever someone's right and I'm wrong. I'm happy because if you're right and I'm wrong
I can be like oh man. That's really good job man. That's yeah really pointing that out and it and it it shows you
That I'm humble yeah, because otherwise you're just like oh do you talk with things right?
Oh no, yeah heck oh man you're right. I'm wrong. That's good job. Hey appreciate you
Straighten me out on that right? Yes, you are right actually yeah
And so that's what he's saying is it actually gives you the opportunity to be modest and to be humble
Yeah, because I'm not as it can be hard when you're right all the time yeah and you still that feeling and
Yeah, yeah, and well there's a guy thinks kind of funny because I can imagine or I can kind of remember
a few times where you're like yeah, yeah, you are correct. You are correct and you'll say that you are correct
Yeah, I'm kind of happy when you're right. Yeah, like in and that's what I feel like
I'm just not small but it's there and it's something now it's like all right
Well, that's one of the one of the tactics I guess yeah, but it's no work. So I guess my over his
Am I over here just manipulating you
Put it this way. I'm glad to be here. You know so
Well, that's a question for you and we've talked about this before if if the reason I was doing it was so that like I could get something
How do you that would benefit me and not that if it and hurt you then yeah
Be manipulation but if it's like hey, we're just trying to build which I'd make something happen. Yeah
Then yeah, then it's all good in my opinion kind of gives me room to talk to which is empowering
You know, sure hey, I abuse it from the time that time I understand
But there was do would you say the last podcast was an example of that a B.A. was ordering on abuse
I can't brush my mind over the line over the line over the line
No, it was in the body body volume. I think what it was
I drank some of that discipline and I was on that white tea and listen to this
I'm just saying you know what you need to do right now
Own it. Yeah, like the white tea you'll play the business and that I got your brain fire incorrectly
I think you are correct people gonna cut you off thing like don't get many more
Yeah, right told you I've been pounding that stuff the camera. Yeah, well, it's tasty. No did assimilated
assimilated
Back to the book the principal task of the general is mental
Large projects and major arrangements
But since the best dispositions become useless if they are not executed
It is essential that the general should be industrious to see whether his orders are executed or not again
Just because you say go make this happen doesn't mean it's gonna happen
You gotta get out there and make sure it happens
Moving on here's a here's a line you can just you can just you can just print this up
Skepticism is the mother of security
That's legit
Even though only fools trust their enemies prudent persons never do
The general is the principal centenal of his army think about that the general is the principal centenal of the army
The guy that's the guy that's keeping everyone safe is the general he's the primary watchstander for everyone
He should always be careful of its preservation and that is never exposed to misfortune
One falls into a feeling of security after battles when one is drunk with success and when one believes the enemy
Completely disheartened
So we all know that you know when that happens you know what Jeff Higgs told me if you tap a guy out like if you have someone that like legit
You have you have battles with on the map and you tap them out
You need to step it up
What right after you're gonna step it up bringing a year all relaxed you're all celebrating your victory
Don't do it step it up. They're coming hard. Yeah, you do that to me all the time. Yes, sir. Okay, I
Hey back to that
The one you're saying before this about you know how like you let them talk or whatever
The opposite of that is if you know let's say when you subordinate to whoever like said something to you and then you respond with the opposite of what you do
With this either tone or words that basically say oh, I already knew that you know
You know, I already knew that like you don't have to tell me kind of thing. I already knew that
People will do that even just on a real small even on a social level sometimes and it does make you not want to talk to them that much
Yeah, for sure it the the idea of saying I already knew that yeah is not good. Yeah
That's an extreme of this case. But what's funny about it? Yeah, yeah a tone can save but also I already knew that you
Didn't know it if you would have known it you would have said it
Yeah, most likely like that's an 80% sure 20% of the time you might be like hey, Jockel arm walks work from the garden too
I'd be like
I even then I wouldn't say already knew that. I'd be like me. You know what yeah, that's that's something definitely good to consider
You know that's sort of a general principle that I totally agree with you know something like that
Just not I already knew that yeah, or will of course yeah, or you know that's extreme, but well of course
That's the one whether you know what forces those words out of your mouth. What you're ego
It's your ego because you don't want that person to have that piece of information that you didn't have so you just
I already knew yeah
I think this is hard
Yeah, I mean I can't say that it's not natural. I mean it feels you know if especially if you did already know it
It's like oh, I don't want him to think that I didn't know that when I really did kind of thing like I don't want him to think
I'm like not what you need to do is you need to trust
You need to trust the nature of the world and the nature of the world is that
You will eventually be seeing as someone that actually does know that yeah clearly, you know that yeah
Trust the nature of the world trust the nature of the world
All right here's another situation
One falls into a feeling of security when a skillful enemy
It abuses you with pretend peace proposals one falls into a feeling of security by mental laziness and through lack of
Calculation concerning the intentions of the enemy
Mental laziness
Just say no to the mental laziness
To proceed and then now he gives instructions how to overcome these situations to proceed properly
It is necessary to put oneself in his place and say what would I do if I were the enemy?
What project could I form make as many as possible of these projects
Examine them all and above all reflect on the means to avert them
If you find yourself unable
Put it right at once
So look it even when you win go, okay, well if I were the enemy what would I do right now?
And if you can't figure out how to solve what you think the enemy's gonna do then correct it right now
Often
Through an hours neglect and
Unfortunate delay
Loses a reputation that has been acquired with a great deal of labor
Always presume that the enemy has dangerous designs and always be forehanded with the remedy
So you got to be careful if what the enemy is gonna do you've always got to imagine that the enemy is ready for you
You got to be ready for that that's got to be your mindset and that's an extreme mindset like the enemies always
Waiting and ready yeah, and you can go too far with that mindset. There's a dichotomy in here is the dichotomy of it back to the book
But do not let these calculations make you timid
Hmm
So just because you're thinking about the enemy might do this the enemy might do this and you could overwhelm you
You know what screw it I'm not gonna do anything. Yeah, no don't let these calculations make you timid
Circumspection is only good to a certain point
Or rule that I practice myself and which I have always found good is that in order to have
Rest oneself
It is necessary to keep the enemy occupied if you want to rest yourself you gotta keep the enemy occupied
Gotta put your competitor you gotta put your competitor on their heels
If you want to get any rest of it, you gotta put your competitor on their heels then he says this throws them back on the defensive and once they are placed
That way they cannot raise up again during the entire campaign you just go you when you get that lead on someone you put them down
That's one of the thing I noticed in in
MMA like someone was like oh you won that last round you got this no
No, I actually don't say that to your corner. Yeah, you like hey
He got guys gonna step it up
He's gonna come out harder. This is the round that he's wanting he's coming after you you need to step it up
You didn't win that round
It's not gonna happen. I mean, you never know who won the round because judges are so horrible
Okay
Continuing on back to the book if you wish to be loved by your soldiers
Husband their blood and do not lead them to slaughter
So that's it that's an obvious statement right but he talks about that in detail. That's important
They can be spared by shortening the battle by means that I shall indicate by the skill with which you choose
Your points of attack in the weakest localities
In not breaking your head against impracticable things which are ridiculous to attempt
In not fatiguing the soldiers uselessly and inspiring him in seedes and battles
So he's saying you got to take care your your men
You got husband there blood and not lead them to slaughter
But the way you do that
Is by attacking the weak locations is
I you know how many times you heard me say like don't blame bang your head against the ball 47 times like
47 okay, that's the limit. Yeah, okay 48. You got to find a different way that's what he's saying
Just keep banging your brang your head against impracticable things don't do that
And here he says this when you seem to be most prodigal of soldiers blood you spirit
However by supporting your attacks well by pushing them with the greatest vigor to deprive time of the means of
Augmenting your losses. So what does he say in there? He's saying that the times
Sometimes it might seem like you're being most wasteful of the blood of your soldiers
But it's in those times
It seems that way the way the reason it seems that way is because you're being super aggressive
It's because you're you're setting up your tax your supporting them well and you're being default aggressive
Has been their blood that's like take care of it. Yeah, I like it. Yeah, take care of it and then
He's saying when you seem to be most prodigal of your soldiers blood that means when you're wasteful of your soldiers blood
You spare it by supporting your attacks well that makes sense by pushing them with the greatest vigor
That makes sense because if you guys are going out at half-ass guess what's not gonna work out well form
Your rules of war are of great usefulness
Are sorry, ruses of war are of great usefulness
Ruses of war so this is like tricks right?
They are detours listen to this they are detours which often lead more surely to the objective
Then the wide road which goes straight ahead
So what is he saying there?
Don't do the frontal assault on the enemy strong point
Use tricks
Flames flanks and here he just breaks it down
Animals have only one method of acting
But intelligent men have in exhaustible resources these resources are infinite in number
Their object is to hide your veritable design and to catch the enemy in the trap you have prepared for him
Thus the contrary of what one wishes to do is fain
If you open the campaign you have your troops march and counter march so that the enemy cannot learn the locality where you assemble
If it is a question of capturing cities you and camp in a place which makes him fearful for two or three cities of
His at the same time being attacked
If he hastens to one flank throw yourself on the other
This is obvious stuff
Seems obvious
But what are you doing when you're when you're setting up a triangle
Right, you're you got the arm bar you you put the person in the threat of the arm bar and the triangle and the sweet ball the same time
You you set up camp in between three cities
They don't know which one you're gonna attack and they got to defend all of them
Are they gonna try to defend all so when they hasten to defend the arm bar?
Yeah, that's when you throw yourself
Let's try and go in that triangle and go in that triangle
You out with the enemy to force him to fight or to prevent him from it
So he's saying that the two ways to outsmart the enemy as you either make the enemy fight
When you don't want it when he doesn't want to or you prevent him from fighting when you don't want to fight
And here you talk to it. This is basically a
Reverse psychology is what he's not to go into right now
There are two means of forcing the enemy to fight one is pretending to fear it
His self confidence becomes your accomplice security laws him into
Security laws him and your cunning triumphs so if you act like you're afraid
Maybe the person's gonna fight you
When it's desired to avoid battle
Different rooses are used and a parent war is made
Which has all the actions of the offensive and which nevertheless is of an opposite nature?
So he's saying there if you don't want to fight you act like you want to fight
That's that's all he's saying in a bunch of words
It is your attitude that imposes on your enemy and the suspicion that you give him that you are forming the bull
Projects against him
The attitude is maintained by not withdrawing easily before the enemy and often the appearance that you are waiting for him will make him lose all desire to attack you
But if he does come you steal away by a nightmare which you an already planned long before
He thinks he has you and the next day there's no one if you only withdraw
You will be followed but but then it is necessary to take position to the flank which will prevent him from passing you without running into great danger
This sort of war is a masterpiece of the Austrians and it is from them that it should be learned
So act aggressively and plan your escape
That's kind of the key thing because if you just act aggressively you might get called on it right up and he's saying act aggressively
But plan your escape while you're acting aggressively
This is gonna sound like this isn't an example because we all are too familiar with it
But here's the thing when it first came when this tactic first came out this is a good example
That very thing so at the bar that I want to fight you right
That's why you want to fight me you want to fight me?
Okay tell your friend. Hold me back. Hold me back. Hold me back. Okay. You want to fight me?
Yeah, let's fight this fight. Hold me back. Hold me back
Friends holding him back you want to fight the guys that go shoot this guy want to fight whatever and be like hey meet me outside
We're gonna fight outside meet me outside one minute. I want to fight it in here. You know, but I'm ready kind of thing
Because I thought he goes outside meet the guys. I guys gone you don't got to fight
Acted all aggressive. Yeah, and then when he went outside to fight you
If even wants to go outside to fight you might be like man this guy's gonna crazy use down a fight to all quick
So I might not go out there, but when he does finally go out there he's gone
Is it a is it a unwritten like rule that if you go to get the fight
I'm gonna try and hold you back because you can't like whisper this over like hold me back
I know but back in back in the day before everyone knew that tactic. It's kind of like that was a good tactic. Yeah, no. I'm just saying
Is it the general rule to just hold people back like hold your friend back from getting in a fight it depends depends
And I guess because if you're a bit when someone's like I'm not gonna hold you back go
But you want to oh yeah 100% one of my buddies who's a bad ass team guy
Somebody was talking smack another seal was talking smack
He's like I'll go kick that guy's ass
Thinking that my buddy would be like no, you know don't hold your back
He was like go ahead. Yeah, that's what you wait and for he's right over there. Yeah, I want you go get him you're running your mouth
Yeah, oh
This yeah, so go run your mouth is the key point there. Yeah, see so I feel I feel like that's kind of like a response to that old school tactic
Yeah, no, that's a good response to the old school tactic if you come out with me and you want to go after someone
I'm gonna let you go. Yeah, I mean like oh go go get to go get some suit you got because I don't like people
They run their mouth. You know what I mean? I don't think anyone does. Yeah, yeah, we had a guy on football
It's weird that everyone knows no one likes people that run their mouths, but there's a bunch of people in the world that run their mouths. Yeah
Explain that one. We all know it. It's kind of like the name dropping thing
Right, it's harder to see it in yourself than it is to see another people. It's like easy to see another people
I hate when they got runs his mouth mean well like that's all you do kind of thing. It's hard to see it in yourself
Easy to see another. I think that's one of those things. That's what I think yeah
But who knows yeah
Good point
That is that you just you once again for that guy that's listen you just nailed it. He's like oh
Got it
That I'll say what this book was
I don't know if it's the translation or whatever, but there's definitely some long complicated sentences that were
a little bit tricky for for me sure had a read of a few times
Back the book there
Let me by saying that what I mean is like sometimes you know a movie from 1987 is a better example
That's what that's what you hear for stupid real love here
There is another ruse
Which is that if you find the enemy too strong to attack him you help him with the means of dividing his forces
So basically if you can get people to split up if you can get your enemy to split up
That's a good tactic as well
There's another type of ruse which is admirable. It is that of double spies
It is necessary to know them and then tell them with an air of good faith everything that you want the enemy to know
So there you go
It is essential to know what is happening among amongst the enemy
I am of the opinion that the best thing against the Austrians will be to bribe some captain or major for their who SARS
By means of whom intelligence can be carried on with them and there's a reason why I'm talking about the series talking about spies
And this is kind of old school but I
I brought that part up so I could do this part right here
If greed for silver does not work it is necessary to employ fear
Seize some mayor of a village where you camp and force him to take a disguised man who speaks the language of the country and
Under some pretext to conduct him as his servant in the enemy army
Threaten him that if he does not bring your man back you will cut the throat of his wife and children whom you hold
Under guard while waiting and that you will have his house burned
I was obliged to employ this sad expedient in Bohemia and it succeeded for me
In general does necessary to pay spies well and not to be miserly in that respect a man who risks being hung in your service merits being well paid
So Frederick the Great
We know he we know he liked music and literature
But guess what he was no stranger to just having your family's throat cut and burning the house down
Yeah ruthless
So he's saying be well-picked like it's kind of like hey
If you listen like a carrot in the stick situation where it's like okay if you listen if you're all good
You get paid well if not you get your house burned down. Yeah kids wife
Yes, it's good. Yep
He's saying if you know he's saying if you can use the carrot if the carrot works that's great if you can make someone greedy
That's like all right, you know what I'll get this information for you because I'm greedy that's cool if you can't get that
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's kind of give him no choice kind of situation yeah, and
You know that's what's what's scary about that is that's
Goes on today. That's what a lot of the geotus would do they would they would kidnap
When they would they would take someone and say look you either run the suicide bomb in this building or we're gonna
Kill your family and burn your house down and you know the people make that horrible choice
Yeah, and that and well even that that's more the sticks
It's like oh that's complete. Oh, yeah, remember the mom the like apparently the mom like on the mafia
Movies and stuff they're like hey, they're paying off this guy
But if he's like if he doesn't want to play the game anymore, then they kill him, you know, it's kind of like that like that right basically
No, it's two different things so if you can get someone that does
Will do what you want to do for money that's right. Yeah if you can't get anyone to do that
Then you got to go yeah
Yeah, but I guess you're right that someone could say hey, I'm done and then you go. Oh, no, you're not done right
You're done. Yeah, so you are right. Yeah, the mafia the mafia thing like yeah
You're gonna you're gonna keep doing this. No
People getting involved in situations like that that they should have got involved in and it all seems okay
It all seems okay in the beginning
Yeah, one side of the other because either side of your criminal or your
Whether you go to help a criminal or you go to help the cops out like you think it's gonna be hey
It's just gonna go good. It's not you're gonna end up in a bad situation. You're in a bad way
So the expression getting into bed with what ever you know, yeah, it's not gonna work out
I never wanted to be a spy of any kind you never to never wanted to be a spy of any kind
never watched
James Bond and it was like I'd really like to do that
I've never watched a spy movie and thought like I don't know I don't like the I don't like that whole
Paranoia like on recover cops too. I'm sure we'll get somebody get done deep undercover. Yeah
I've never had like I don't I want to I don't like that
Yeah, I don't like to I don't want to fabricate everything like that all the time
Yes, it's just hard. It's it means props to them like undercover cops. That's a crazy job
Yeah, imagine it proud imagine going in right you're undercover
Going and you don't know I think I know
Oh, no, because that's how right like especially these organized
Crime bosses
What is on the movies anyway where when they find out it's like a lot of times they don't just oh
What is it?
I said I'm up. Yeah, that's uh I never had the desire to do that some people really like that stuff
I never had the desire to do that
I'm a swordfish watch it movie sort of yeah that happens anyway. It's like a cross and a double cross
We'll talk about that some other time. Yeah, you know what let's let's let's let's tee it up from a talk pass
Go back to the book. I'm dead
check
In neutral countries it is necessary to make friends
If you can win over the whole country so much the better
The friendship of the neutral countries gained by requiring the soldier soups serve good discipline and by picturing your enemies as
Barbraus and bad intention
Solid solid advice right
Oh, this is good
Let no one imagine that it is this that it is sufficient just to move in army about to make the enemy
Regulate himself on your movements
So you you can't just thank yourself
Hey
My moves are enough and I'm doing and and it's gonna have the impact that I want to have
A general who is who has two presumptuous confidence in his skills runs the risk of being grossly dupped
That's what this is don't let your ego get out of control war is not an affair of chance
A great deal of knowledge study and meditation is necessary to conduct it well and when blows are planned
Whoever contrives them with the greatest appreciation of their consequences will have a great advantage
However to give a few rules on such a delicate matter I would say that in general the first of two army commanders
Who adopts an offensive attitude almost always reduces his rival to the defensive and makes him regulate himself on his movements
What does that mean means default aggressive it means go that sort of means
Unskillful generals race to the first trap set before them
I just had a guy on Twitter say
I'm a white belt but tonight I swept a blue belt
It wasn't really that good though cuz he armed locked me quickly thereafter. I was like you got a sweep him you got set up
Yeah, you did do so same thing don't race for the first trap that's set before you this is why a great advantage is drawn from knowledge of your adversary
And when you know his intelligence and character you can use it to play on his weaknesses
Everything which the enemy least six specks will succeed the best
That's true a hundred percent
That's why when you get like when you think about when you get caught gj to
I would say most of the time it's getting caught with something that you didn't expect right some people
Dean can do things and like he's gonna get it and you know it's coming like you hear a Hicks and stories
Hicks and be like I'm gonna arm lock everyone's left arm and they'd line up 20 black belts need arm lock everyone's left arm
But most of the time
It's something that you least expect yeah and and there's kind of two things and I think we're strange
I was just thinking about this yesterday with it's like there's two kind of ways
Where you'll get caught so if you want to use Dean as the example and then the the unexpected example
If you get caught in someone by someone like when Dean does that where's like oh I'm gonna get you with this
What he does is the equivalent of let's say like I don't know you he might not literally say that
But you know it's coming I mean I do this to you right where you're like oh he's good about to come here to me. Yeah, like you know it's coming
Yeah, yeah, so that's the situation that we're talking about. Yes example one yes
So it's like okay if you're on the battlefield or whatever you have a defense here
You know a defensive position there a defensive position there a defensive position there and they're all protecting
Ultimately like one guy's protecting this guy this guy's protecting this guy and this guy, you know kind of thing
So it's like you can't get to this guy with that
What's going through this situation right and what Dean essentially does is he shuts down all your defenses for this thing to move the
Heads so yeah, yeah, it's like okay. I'm gonna try to pass the guard
But that's the guard how's he gonna defend so he shuts that down before you even realize like oh yeah
That he's gonna try to pass these are a few steps ahead. Yes, so when he goes for these
When I'm getting the camera on you it's not the camera itself that got you it was
I didn't go when you left your arm out and I saladed it because I was going for a choke and I end up doing that
Yes, and then your other arms tied up under your heaviest knee
Because that's part of the defense, but you already knew that two musical you already knew that
So that you shut those down and that's what Dean's good at a lot of time
Especially as any as that we're good like pressure. Oh, yeah, so if your arm is like isolated since you
Don't really detect like
Immediate threat you like dang my arm stuck, but hey, that's not it's kind of okay for right now. I'll do it with it later
But here's the thing no you're not gonna do it later. He just took care of that
Defense that you're gonna need by the way and it's gone and then you know that you need it yet
In 20 seconds in the future but he already
Eliminate that exactly right and that's the way it works there and the other ones are just like how you're saying
Where it's kind of like you know you attack this sweep and the arm bar and when they go to defend one or even both of
A lot of times because they're ready for it, you know you went for the thing that you planned or it didn't
Does that Dean does that one like let someone try and
Armlock him or let him try and triangle and like they're 100% not gonna armlock him. Yeah, but even me
I'll be like I get it. It's about five
He continues on here back to the book if you realize for security on a chain of mountains that he believes is impracticable
And you pass these mountains by roads unknown to him. He is confused to start with and if you press him
He will not have time to recover from his consternation
That's actually a really good description of just you right there like you're just confused it
But by the time you're trying to overcome your confusion and your concern you're getting crushed
In the same way if he places himself behind a river to defend the crossing and you find some forward above or below
Which he which on which to cross unknown to him this will surprise and deranged him and confuse him. I like that
The art of war is divided between force and strategy
What cannot be done by force must be done by strategy and I actually was kind of
Unclear about the usage of the word strategy and there's meanings of it to clarify the meaning a little bit more specifically
It's means like
Disception but trickery
It just doesn't mean strategy means like
This is a trick scenario. Yeah kind of seemed like the root word of what strategy kind of maybe came from well
Yeah, I would definitely say that
It's the same
So I'd say you failed that one
Hold on let me redo that that's a good point. Yeah, yeah
I didn't see that thank you
See sometimes I don't fall in my own
That was one of them huh? No, I'm right up just
How can a dagger at you? Is it that an exception though because you know how like everything you know
You can do something too much
Like you know like if you're that we're encouraging me. I'm passing out dumb. I'll be a stuff. You know all the kind of strategy
Yes exactly
That's why I didn't try and fake it you know I can't do real
You're gonna get a kill the dead economy man. They can't have check have your disposition supported well
Do not forget your reserves
Take advantage of the terrain and then attack him
Bruscally and you should be able to hope for the most brilliant success if the heights are on your side
This will be of great advantage to you if they are not you have almost no hope of succeeding take the high ground
Or the high ground will take you
Something that's been talked about
Now he's talking about attacking the enemies in trenchman so the enemies in a defended position
If you have resolved to an attack an entrenched enemy do it at once and do not allow him to
Time to perfect his works
So if you know you're gonna have to defend attack a defended position do it as quick as you can
Don't let them
Get their defenses all set up
That's something that a lot of G.T. players
They
Especially I would say it's kind of the same thing but if you pass my guard I don't wait until you settle me across the side before I start escaping
As soon as I know I'm gonna lose that position
I'm already escaping and
Same thing if I pass your guard and then I let you get in your defense position
Well, it's gonna be hard to yank your arm out of there, but there's a moment where your arms hang it out
And if I go for it right then my probability for success is a lot higher
Yeah, you got all mad one time like a couple months ago because I did that to you
I like pass you go wham on lock and you and you were it was a straight there's something that bothered you about it
Yeah, emotionally. I don't know what it was. Oh, I could tell you I'm a reenact or a recount
The account yeah, so I said to you
I said you know what because you kept getting me with the guilty and I said to you kind of
I'm even the lie said this but I did say that I said I think I got my defense against your kimura and arm lock like your other arm moves
I think I got that dot. I think I'm solid with those defending those but the guilty and I'm still, you know trying to figure out
I said something I said that basically and you were like oh, okay? Oh, yeah, and then because I
Yeah, and yeah, and then you went in a little bit, you know more sense of urgency or whatever and it was an arm bar that you did
That was almost of a would have been a flying arm bar except it was done with in a scramble
Yeah, so like you kind of did a little guard pass and you went to and yeah, it came out of nowhere
You shouldn't have been capable of doing that in my opinion at the time. What opened the game up?
Sometimes I could open the game up a little bit. Yes, you did sure
That's exactly what I love that I love that part of Gjitsu
I love that part of Gjitsu where you're going like
Getting after I've been training with Andy Hard and we've been both been opening up the game
Are you to train with Dean like this all the time we just didn't care suicide every move was a suicide move
Like hey, I might just die after I do this move, but I'm gonna do it anything
Yeah, yeah, but good and you just watch you which is be like a like a like a Tasmania and Devil
Just stuff going on. Yeah, I'm trying to train like that again right now. Yeah, and that's good because it's so fun in a way
You start to it's almost like you guys are both doing
Offense encounters is what you do you're not really defending technically much exactly you know
You're just going for something. Yeah, he's going for something. Okay, because most things have a counter to it
You know kind of thing and you're just thinking like it's a real forward thinking like dynamic. Yeah, yeah, it is
This is fun. It's good. Yeah, and so point being
Once you get a little advantage on the enemy take advantage of it don't let them reset and reset
Go get a little advantage on your competitor go tell him apart a tack harder
It is the generals Kudeya that must decide this if you attack a bull by the horns
Your task will be difficult and perhaps will not succeed at all
Attack a weak position make sense
And now he starts talking about so when he talked about attacking an entrenchment or defense position
Now he's talking about setting up a defensive position and he says as I have already said and I repeat it
That I would never put myself in an entrenchment at least unless a terrible misfortune
Such as the loss of a battle or a triple superiority on the part of the enemy forced me to do it
So he's not gonna dig in and try and defend he's gonna be on offense all the time
You know, this is really essentially what the guard is
People think you know you shouldn't be on the bottom in the guard that's a disadvantage
It's disadvantage you would rather be on top and if you end up in the guard
Well, that's because you ended up there by some gross misfortune of your own doing most likely or your other person now
Have there are there some people out there that absolutely have a guard that's so crazy and offensive
That it's be it's kind of morph that a little bit. Yeah, yes, that is true. Yeah, and then there's some people in combat
That are so good at defending positions that they make it well look at the Russians that they're their whole strategy
Is basically pulling guard like yeah, okay
You come this way a little bit because what's where do you spend more gas defending guard or passing guard?
Passing guard me too for sure. Yeah, trying to pass guard is way more
Energy
Draw draws way more energy trying to pass them
And when you're just when you're just holding and you're adjust your hips and you adjust your hips
Well, that's what the Russians do so their guard is just really really good
They they tax you a little bit and move back. They tax you a little bit move back. They tax you a little bit move back. They tax you a little bit move back
Mm-hmm and by the time you get there you're exhausted. Hmm. Just you get caught
Um
If you are inferior in numbers do not despair of winning
But do not expect any other success
Then gained by your skill so you can win when you're outnumbered, but you better have some serious skill
There are some generals who maintain that an army in position should be attacked in the center as for me
I am of the opinion that it should be attacked at the weakest point
They say that in breaking the center you separate the entire army in place yourself in a situation to gain the most brilliant
Inventages as for me. I repeat it. I approve of all methods of attacking
Provided they are directed at the point where the enemies army is the weakest and where the terrain favors them the least
Attack weak points
Boom
This is important the defensive positions is again. He's talking about defense a little bit more
I would choose only on a sailor bull positions or else I would not occupy them at all
For we have too many advantages in attacking to deprive ourselves of them gratuitously
Let me tell you what I took away away from that. This is something that I do all the time and it might it's like no big deal
It's no big deal, but when you think about it, it's it's important
I choose I would only choose on a sailor bull positions or else I would not occupy them at all. What does that mean to me? What that means is
If I don't know something a hundred percent
I don't try and defend it with a hundred percent strength. I see this all the time with businesses with human beings with people
They they're not they don't know something a hundred percent, but they're gonna they're gonna fall on their sword because of it
And it's a total mistake. There's there's very few things that I feel so
knowledgeable about and I have such a good position on that my position is unassailable
So why it doesn't take a it doesn't it doesn't you're not a bad person if you go you know
I'm not a hundred percent sure on that. Yeah, here's my opinion, but it's just an opinion
Look at people better
Okay, well the minute you throw down
And you're in a position that is a sailor bull meaning you can get your your butt kicked
Well then guess what you will someone's gonna come and do it. Yeah, so just keep it over mind don't don't
Hunker down on positions that you're not even sure about yeah, there you go. Yeah, seems logical
But here's what's hard. I think is because
Usually that's in like some kind of me against you situation and I'm talking about obviously with just normal people
Usually it's like some sort of a debate that you get into with somebody about something and
And
It turns into this okay, it's me against you. I'm right you're wrong
Versus you're right in I'm wrong kind of thing and it just turns into that so now it's like now is kind of some part in their brain
Kind of things okay if I say hey, I'm not really sure
I just gave up the battle. I just gave up. Yeah, this whole battle that kind of started and don't start there
The key part of this is don't start with I'm right in your room
Yeah, I'm not too infirm about this subject. Can you film me? Yeah, and by the way the more you talk as we learned
The more you talk the more I know about your position and my position. Yeah, I'm gonna let you talk
But that is given the given the fact or given the circumstance that your brain your mind is in
In a me against you mode. Yes, because you don't walk around in that mode that there is the the
Mist that there's a there's a little dichotomy there too. You want to know why because I'm always me against you
I'm me against everyone yeah, but the way I actually win against you is to not
Defended an unassailable position. Yeah, that's how I actually win and you have this thing where you're that's
That's that's important
Important. Yes, yeah, and that's not to mention how you always have while you seem to always have this mindset of like the bigger picture like a big
You know how you say like you don't necessarily you're not focused on little battles
I'll attend your more folks in the world so a little something we called it
Datched yeah, I don't really care about the thing that you're actually fired up about I don't actually care
Yeah, I care about a little time. Maybe I only care about how it's gonna affect the long term outcome of this broad strategy that I'm over here
Executed
Yes, so see how you're
You seem to be always aware of that. There's the missed up. I think that people they get what you call it when you get sucked in
Target fixation. Yeah, yeah exactly right for sure. That's not easy thing to just not do
I'm just not gonna do it. You know, it's not that easy man. Whatever. You know for you though, I get
Back to the book. I have not spoken yet of the reserve
It should be commanded by a skillful general and it should be placed in a locality where he can see everything
So the reason I brought this up is to again counteract something he said in the beginning of the book which is right here
He should act on his own initiative
And if he sees that one of the wings are a need of help he should conduct a reserve there without being called so again
It much he says here. When we listen to me. Oh, babe. That's his macho statement the reality is he wants is
He wants his reserve leader to like step up and make things happen without being told that decentralized command
That's how it has to be
I like this what is practiced in armies
Is done on a small scale with detachments
So you got you got your big army they do the same thing that the little elements out there in the field do what's my primary example this
Cover move
So when he says detachments he means just means small little
Be careful, sharp yeah a company
Oppul to him in a battalion
Got you there out there doing the same thing that the army's doing that the big
Regiment divisions doing
Here's a good one a battle is lost less
Less through the loss of men
Then by discouragement
Remember that one
The another one the man who does things without motive or in spite of himself is either insane or a fool
War is decided only by battles and it is not finished except by them
Thus they have to be fought but it should be done
But it should be opportune and with all the advantages on your side
concur
Here's here's a good little section
Reflections on the hazards and misfortunes of war
When a general conducts himself with all prudence he can still suffer ill fortune
For how many things do not cooperate at all with his labors?
So yeah things are gonna go bad
Weather harvest the officers the health or sickness of his troops
Blunders the death of an officer on whom he counts discouragement of the troops
Exposure of your spies negligence of the officers who should record recorder the enemy and finally betrayal
These are the things that should be kept continually before your eyes
So as to be prepared for them and so that good fortune will not blind us
You cannot be blinded by good fortune. You're gonna get lucky sometimes
He goes on about this more if an important detachment is entrusted to a man of judgment and if this man should become sick or should be killed
There is all your business hung up
For no one should imagine that sound heads are common in armies
Yeah, guess what? It's really hard to find good leaders
Offensive generals are rare among us. I only know a few and nevertheless
It is only to these that this sort of detachment can be entrusted
It's talking about aggressive
When he says offensive general he means aggressive generals people are gonna make things happen
It's so good. You know if you're like a young person or an old person or your person listening to this
If you can make things happen, yeah, it's like incredible and you will go far in life
If you sit back and you wait for things to happen, it's not good and you won't go far in life
Nothing is gonna just happen because you
Helgif you cross your fingers. It doesn't make anything happen. You have to make it happen
You have to be an aggressive general and they're rare
Is like you know what there's actually not even any competition
Like there's no competition for it like if you're you're there you are such hide if you're a person that can make things happen
You are in such high demand you're gonna you're gonna be set yeah
There's just not that many people that will make things happen. Yeah, and if you're one of them you're gonna do great
Yeah, that's too huh and you and my saying they got a step on toes and you got to be all
Agrow and Matt, macho and run around no I'm not saying that but you make things happen
You do it tactfully and you're smart you do the skies a limit. Yeah, because it's not like this just this over
Abundance of people making hey I work with businesses all the time
The the every every single business I work with is looking for good people that are gonna make things happen
Yeah, that's just all of them 100% I never went to a business there like oh yeah luckily
Everyone here we're maxed out with people that good good people that make things happen
Yeah, then that's too many oh yeah
So big person that makes things happen. Yeah, and there's a difference
As far as what I can tell there's a difference between someone who's grinding and working real hard at it
And then some of who makes it happen because like okay when you kind of make it happen sure that usually takes work
It did get but at the end of the day is like they're straight up results
Yeah, no the guy who's sort of just works hard the guy that works hard school too
But there's a difference you're right there's being some of that just makes things happen
Yeah, and they'll do whatever
Nobody thinks happened they'll work hard they'll grind hard
No maneuver they'll go back they'll read they'll read they'll revisit the whole plan
Yeah, to get the result making it happen. Yeah, we're gonna make it happen
Yeah, remember to tell the story about finding wine for my brother. Oh
Yeah, we're gonna start that that was the kind of the I know terrible example
I know but at it's core it's the same thing you ever see wine. I'll it's huge and you're like you easily could say hey
I didn't have that much time or whatever you just made it
I don't care I'll be the one of those people
I'm starting I'm beginning I'm in the beginning I'm on all it's
Yes, there's this
Okay speaking of
Things happening by luck kind of mentioned that in considering for two to some events and the chapter of accidents
One can see that a general should be skillful and lucky and that no one should believe so fully in his star
That he abandoned himself to it blindly if you are lucky and trust in luck alone even if your success reduces you to the defensive
If you are unlucky
You're already there
So if you're counting on luck you're already on the defensive and if you're unlucky you're already on
And you know what I said to that is make your luck. That's what I say. Yeah, get out there make your luck
Yeah
You will have seen by what I have occasion to delineate concerning war that
Promptness
And by prompt us he's talking about speed
Contributes a great deal to success in marches and even more in battles that is why our army is drilled and such
Fashion than it acts faster than others
Violence of action is what they status in the field names
How cool is it when you're 19 years old and you're getting taught about violence of action?
Yeah, seems pretty cool. If I heard this podcast and I was 18 years old and I heard someone saying when you got to this
Healtames you get taught about violence of action. I would go assign up a movie
Yeah violence of action like go hard now
That's what he's talking about he calls it promptness
But we don't call it calmness recall a violence of action
Yeah, from drill these maneuvers which enable us to form in the twinkling of an eye
And from this that speed in all cavalry moments
So again when I got to the seal teams they didn't say hey you need to learn to be able to move in the twinkling of an eye
I wouldn't have been what have been now with that no no violence of action
That's what's important
As for any that was talking about cavalry now he talks about
On foot as for the rapid step of the infantry and the attack
It is not it is not the greater or lesser number of dead that decides an action
But the ground you gain it is not the fire
But the bearing which defeats the enemy. The reason it's not like the the shooting that does it. It's how aggressive you are
And so now there's a caveat to that which is like fire superiority is a real thing
And if you've been on the wrong side of supfire superiority you're not winning anything
But if you get aggressive
Then that is the one of the most powerful things on the battlefield and that's exactly how you overcome
When when you when someone else has superior firepower on you or fire superiority on you the way you won't
Recomment is by aggressive action by sending out someone to a flank and and
Do something aggressive move that's what you have to do that's what you do to get out of there
And they taught us that's another thing they taught so you get ambush. Do you get someone's got fire superiority? What do you do you attack?
That's you you attack
Still recommend that
And a couple more thoughts here for a Fredrick the great
The general should make sure that new uniforms for the army arrive in time towards spring
That the captains provide shoes that the wagons can and carriages etc
Of the army are repaired as well as the saddles and boots of the cavalry in a word
He should enter into all these details and himself visit the corners to see what is going on there
If the officers are drilling the recruits if they are working and to animate them with kind words
And reprimands to make them do their duty. So he's a guy that gets in there
You know that makes things happen
As we've been talking about and he's also a person that really takes care of his people make sure that they are taken care of
If you take care of your people your people are gonna take care of you
He closes out and closes out the Frederick the Greats
Foughts right here. I'd affect something close on there's a lot of stuff but I figured this one would what do a decent job
It should be said to the shame of young men
That debotry and laziness often make them prefer ease
To glory
Boom
So there you go and obviously once again
I think we see that leadership is leadership is leadership and in different times and different places and different battles and different circumstances
The fundamental principles do not change
They do not change and we do see them with different angles and he see different nuances and
That provides us the ability to understand them with greater depth
So that so that we can become better leaders is what I'm talking about here not
Maybe not maybe not as great as Frederick the Great
Maybe but if we become better leaders
We can take better care of our teams and if we take care of our teams our teams will take care of us and that
Is what leadership is
Frederick the Great
Now
We make this podcast
So that we can learn and I learn a lot from this podcast me myself
And we also do it on the podcast so that other people can learn with us which is
Seems fair and if anyone wants to help support the podcast
There's actually a bunch of different ways
That you can do it which will
Talk about it and it's not just like hey just support the podcast. That's not
That's not the deal no
It's more like just get in the game. Get in the mess. Yes. That's what it's about
just support the podcast
would be
Send
You know send money or hey we're gonna put the podcast beyond the fire wall
And if you want to get them you'll give them money
That's not what we're saying no because we're getting a lot of we're already getting a lot of the podcast
So we're good
But if you want to get deeper into the game. Let's go you can do that too
You can do that one way is our company
Origin USA
You can do it
Farming to Maine. What is it? American made products 100% American made
Without compromise get some we got geese and rash guards
Which are the best in the world?
Straight out no no doubt no doubt yeah
Factually oh it's factually the the geese are made of a blend
They're not a geey from 1956 which is what all other geese are
Just geese from 1956
Right
Not they're modern
Modern made for jiu jitsu yes for jiu jitsu in lead indeed
Yeah, yeah and also
The jiu jitsu I know I know but yes the jiu jitsu most comfortable jiu
So
And you know I I consider myself a fancy myself as a connoisseur of comfort right so I
Can serve myself a connoisseur of suffering yes, so this is the deck
There's a deck out of me even within the podcast with the channel. Yeah, yes, yes
So if you are interested in that I would recommend the jiu jitsu
Yeah, I'm not interested in it so if you were interested you can get them right not oh by the way
You can jog in them too by the way. Okay. Well, I guess that ups the suffering level a little bit
You can do suffering stuff in the comfortable jiu jitsu
That's that's kind of the key
What else also their supplements there?
You a bunch of different kinds sure
Yeah, joint warfare joint supplement yeah, so joint warfare is and this is totally just me doing this me
Cattle rising it so the krill oil I always looked at like okay, oh mega threes
That's for general health, you know, so joints and other stuff by the way your eyeballs
Other stuff too
It's gonna keep it more in the game healthy whatever so your joints as they degenerate over time boom
They'll make it three is from the krill oil which is the best absorption compared to fish oil and all these other supplements which are fine
But krill is way better jocosuper krill while even better more antioxidants by the way, factually
I always considered those as just general health I did and
So the joint warfare that's like if you're getting not doing jiu jitsu that's kind of the thing right even when I first started jiu jitsu
To a rant I think it was you like hey glucose mean and conjuritan this is gonna help you from just from all the twisting that you do
Stress you when you train every day is back with you know train five six days a week hardcore competing or whatever
And you say yeah glucose mean conjuritan so I always like viewed those two like so the joint warfare has those glucose
Me and curcumin
You know that always got to add the extra good stuff. Yeah, yeah, I did get good so it's like
If your joints are being like hammered on
Because you carry them
Pickaxe all day
Yeah, I like this anyway that's how I kind of be the thing so
That's where do you and my bias epinal I'm gonna go into it again. I'm gonna give you an update on it
So literally I'm no cast of no cast no bandage no stitch no nothing right now that's amazing in fact
If you see me you wouldn't even think maybe I I didn't remember that you had surgery until you
Told me today
I wanted to attend yeah, but the
The and that's funny say that because sometimes I even forget I had surgery
Yeah, like you know what I like you do just every day something on a belt
I'm not gonna try to drag this out but you had the exact same surgery on the other arm the healing process was much much slower
the only
I guess difference between the two scenarios there's actually two differences. I said the only but there's two differences
one
You are much younger in your first surgery
Which would indicate
That probably you would heal quicker. Yeah, but that did not happen and that has not happened in fact the opposite is happened
You have healed much much faster. It's not even close much faster and the only other thing is that
Joint warfare
Criollo that's the only thing I did different yes in fact
Yeah, I mean yeah, so only thing I did different
Um
To the point where I hear it's in the spirit of accuracy
I don't know technically biologically how much of this is healing as far as my tendon
Healing to the bone. I don't know there's no way of knowing but I do know this
I forget that I had surgery three weeks ago by the way to reattach my whole muscle to my bone
They drill a hole in your bone. They put it in that hole. They put an anchor on the other side of your bone
Attach something and it's bro. It's not nothing. It's definitely something and I forget that I had that surgery three weeks ago
By the way
Well, that's good joint warfare awesome Criollo oil. I've been on that forever and I highly recommend it because it helps you with everything and now you're saying it helps me with my vision too
Well Omega 3s helped you with a bunch of stuff in your body including my vision vision all that stuff. That's good to know. I just thought I had such sharp vision
Yeah, Omega 3s man looking to it's all good also discipline you need discipline. Yeah, so yeah
You need self discipline in your life, but you're not talking about that. I don't know
And it's not even in pose of discipline. Actually. It's kind of some someone imposed you're imposing on yourself
But not really because you made it taste okay the supplements called discipline, but you made it taste good
So it's not imposed it's welcomed. It's like welcome. So I was like Dave and I were up working with the company and
You know whatever we work whenever we get together. It's always like we're going hard and you know
There's not a lot of sleep going on or whatever in workouts and all that and you ever um you ever seen those
Like videos or memes where they got one word that means a lot of different things
Like I remember there was an old one about dude and it said like oh, I mean you know
How's it going like dude or it could mean why did you do that like dude? Right right and the other day
I was with Dave and we were at this gig and you know like I said we're working and he sees me with uh
Because you know Dave's kind of addicted to discipline. Yes, he sees me with a I took a water bottle
Whatever, you know normal plastic water bottle and I poured discipline because I always travel with it
And as I'm as I'm now standing with a clear plastic water bottle and Dave sees that I
That it's discipline right and he just looks at me and he goes bro
And I totally knew exactly what he wanted some discipline bad and I was like yeah
Man, I got enough for you. So I put the Dave in the knee caught on fire. Yeah on fire cognitively
Yes, really yes because we were well we did some physical stuff in the morning, but we didn't take this upon for that
It wasn't that hardcore wasn't like we were rolling but
Yeah, he wanted the cognitive enhancement for putting together
All the different applications of extreme ownership up in the company. So yeah
No big deal and that's what it is ultimately is a cognitive
Enhancing supplement but jocquistile yeah, and you know what this is the thing that I got to figure out
Because I've got you know I've got my own little methodologies of how I operate just across the board
There's just operations happening right that's just how I roll for the discipline on in when I go in in the field or
When I go on a trip have a little little
Little tougherware thing that's small and I put it up above a little elastic band on I carry in my travel bag
Whatever, it's okay. I haven't figured out how to do this with mulk yet which is a problem
Because here's the thing with mulk
Mulk tastes freaking good and if you don't know what mulk is it's yeah, it's got protein and it that's awesome. It's got
What are they bought what are they called
Probiotics which is awesome and I never took those before because I always thought that was kind of like just like a yoga thing
But they're not but they like know like talking to Brian and Pete their no
No, no, you definitely want to vote. So we put them in there and now that definitely your gut will feel better
But whatever, I don't care about any that it tastes freaking good right and so it gives you the
Is the ultimate like satisfaction? Yeah, you know
Let's see you have a giant steak which I eat a lot of giant steaks or
Have you read eating a giant steak and you got done and you were still like you know what
No, no, they can never maybe so I get that way
What I want maybe it's all those years rice to just get after the mint chocolate chip ice cream at the end of the night and so sometimes that little
That little
For a little flashback
And I get done in the big steak and I'm gonna should be all happy and then said I'm like I'm not one really
If you have mulk with you you're good you want your dessert that's what you want
Yeah, I don't want to say that
Looks like a so anyways if you get mulk you can have dessert every night you can have dessert every day you can have breakfast mulk and dinner
Because it's a it's a meal and actually life was asking me life's like what does mulk mean?
Anyways, I was like I made it up. He's like what do you mean you made up? I made it up. How did you know?
What was the making up process?
Oh
Have you ever tasted it? Yes, and what did you think when you first tasted it?
Uh, this tastes like a dessert. It's for me. I was like oh man. This is good mulk and it just came out
Yeah, it's there's no other way to describe it. It wasn't milk it wasn't ice cream
It was something else or something new so there you go mulk. It's a mint chocolate milk shake
You know it's probiotics in it. Which is a big deal. You were like oh, yeah, I guess that's probably
products which I guess is cool. That's your whole deal. That's a huge deal. Oh, I know that now that I realize how it
settles your stomach but you know what I'll speak in of Dave Burke Dave
You know how like I'm really into mint chocolate milk. Yeah, so I do his flavor happens to be
peanut butter chocolate like that's his deal. So he's he's like a crack addict like
wins it with that wins it with a chocolate bean. Yeah, come on. So when it was coming out
And then and then he said it's not coming out for a long time and I was like yeah, it's gonna be like another
For four weeks or five weeks and he's saying I know that's a long time
So David easy Dave we got you yeah, I'm be honest. I agree with Dave. I feel it's an exact same way and
Peanut butter chocolate happens to be myself a second favorite as well. What's your first favorite?
Mint chocolate. Oh, see you're familiar. You're fully in the game. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no
100% actually they're even energy never made that connection
Yeah, I might have mentioned it. Maybe I did it. I don't know what to remember that
Yeah, so you're pumped
So you're all about that moment. Yes, right? Oh, you're 100% on the left. Yeah, I try not to admit too much of my my liking for desserts around you
I I tame that back, but the hey the facts are the facts and yeah, I'm all in
Actually I didn't mention this where it's like you need to do the one scoop or whatever
I don't do the one scoop, but I put in the in the big 30 ounce
Do two three scoops even I would put a little bit of a fill. I don't I feel it up. Well, you just said 30 ounce or you're talking 30 ounces
Yeah, I probably not to the top 20 20 23 ounces here 24 24
And you're putting two three scoops and three scoops in and scoops in. I'm not saying that because I'm doing like
Do 20 ounces of milk and two scoops. It's not extra thick. I don't think but that's just what my standard
I don't know like what's the stat? I don't really take protein powders or nothing like this
I don't want this that's all
Good put it actually put it egg in there putting the blender dang
But you really want to get nuts. I do that for like the
What is this for the experience? No
All right, so that's milk you want to go to some get some origin main dot com just
Origin main dot com is where you order it and you can also get it on Amazon
FYI if you didn't know that hey speaking of origin main dot com if you want to come to the
Juditsu immersion camp it is August 26 through September 2nd. There's two
What phases sessions or you can go to the whole thing
Somebody asked if we're gonna go to the origin factory if you want to come see the factory
Yes, we're going to the factory visit isn't in the middle of the week and we'll be doing it to all the time so get some
And we'll see there I'm going echo's going echo's gonna be incapacitated
Hmm quasi capacity oh, so you just be in a knowledge
acquiring mode yeah and a knowledge sharing mode here. The technically I could I could roll I could roll
But okay, then we roll on that question Brian Viglioni comes and starts getting nuts
I can't roll with him. Well, maybe good. No, I could I shouldn't it be irresponsible for me to roll hard put it that way
He didn't care he came here rolled and it just needed jacked up right his neat yeah
But it's different like a muscle tendon attachment is directly correlated injury wise
Directly correlated without hard you go on that muscle directly
So you'll be a limited basis, but you'll be there to share knowledge receive knowledge hang out kick it eat lobster
I will roll. Yes. Oh dang. I don't know what ever well echo's gonna be there. I'm gonna be there
Dave Burke is gonna be there
Life is gonna be there
JPI believe is marginal right now or not 100% but whatever will be there will be hanging out and a like
Black belts go lore I forgot that part black belts go lore
There'll be a bunch of black belts and then every other belt. Yeah, yeah, which is a huge deal
Knowledge wise even training one yeah, because most everyone's gonna be training. Yeah, yeah, so you get to experience like because
Yeah, sometimes it's like if you some people have never rolled with them
Yeah, some people never know some people have never trained before and they're gonna come to the camp that happened last year
People have never trained before came to camp, but I'm sorry. I cut you off
And you're gonna say that some people never rolled to the black belt before right right like even if they've been training for even like a year or something like that
Some you know sometimes that's how it goes, you know
Or if it's like hell on a roll with juggle specifically are you you?
You know, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
I'm good last year had a rib issue this year no issues whatsoever. No, we're being good. So that's that yeah boom and
Also switching gears just another good way to support
The podcast and oneself joc was a store it's called jocos store
Website jocos store.com. I know super simple, but that's the way we
Keep it I keep it simple now, too. Yeah, that's a law of combat actually
Exactly right boom and you practice what you preach as we all know anyway jocos start.com this
This where you can get
Jockel here. Yeah, but like you can get rash cards sure and you used to always going a big tangent about how it's for all
Activities sure it is yeah
I do went at the waters warm but right right now by the way out here in California the waters warm
You do not need a wetsuit at this time to surf and
And so yeah the origin rash cards very effective for surfing the jockel rat rash cards also very effective for surfing and
Cycling and what else yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and everything and everything
That's
Yes, again jockel store.com this where you can get all this stuff t-shirts the ones that say discipline equals freedom
Get after it tank tops by the way. Oh, yeah, and also on Amazon
There's fake jocotissures. Yeah, I'm cool. I'm happy that you're in like trying to get in the game and that's cool
It's a cool way to like
Feel cool about stuff
And you can do that, but you are not supporting no, but that's just for it. It's not going to come that support goes to someone that
A pirate a pirate yeah, but not a like a not a cool part. Not a cool part. You know, yeah, just a thief
Yeah, so watch out for those you can get your t-shirts get them from jockel store.com
Also you can get trucker hats. Yes, sir, which you seem to be really surprised at trucker hats look cool on me
You told me you're like I didn't picture the situation. I don't know that I can get ready to get a flick with a flex
Let's see that that's what everyone's all pumped for. I'm old school. Yeah, yeah, and then beenies to
Yes, sir, which which beenies for me. This is a so I sleep on my planes. Sure. You're an all-in-one plane
I sleep I put a beanie on my head. Well, it's least sleep for like four minutes
Yeah, I'm sorry you've been on the plane. Yes, sir
So I'll put my head up against the the bulkhead as they call it in the plane and the beanie keeps your head for a little tiny
Variations go on the whole time you just need that little beanie. It's like a pillow. Yeah, so I put on the beanie and sleep
If you see me don't bother me and then I wake up in four minutes later be ready to rock and roll on a right another buck
Yes, sir, see so when you say oh, I sleep on the plane. Who's think I sleep on the plane?
No, you sleep on the plane. That's what I'm saying. That's amazing. Yes, sir
I was impressed by your sleeping capabilities. Now you you you had sunglasses on yes, you were asleep for four
straight hours in a
You look like those what are those?
That Chinese statues in the big vault where they have like thousands of Chinese soldiers
All lined up
Yeah, anyways, they're just like a per you did not move you were out and you did not move your head stayed straight up
And you just sat there asleep just so this sleep in yeah, yeah, so when I say I sleep on the plane
I'm like
You know depends on what you mean by sleep, but I get it and the beanie's eliminated that makes sense
They allow it and they keep the headborne. Yeah, I was gonna say they do have other uses and even let's face it
They look kind of cool. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, I know you know about that either
I'm about to see if you're looking cool. Then the last they are available that is true also women stuff
A lot of times people ask me hey make more women stuff
And I will but there's women stuff on their tanks and sure to whatnot the rash guards are kind of for everybody as well
But yeah good stuff on their good women stuff
Good stuff to get after it in and hoodies. Yes. Don't forget about hoodies. Yeah, I'm gonna make a new hoodie
You might not approve of this. I think why are we making things that I don't approve of?
I would you know sometimes they look I don't break the rules ever. Why won't I approve it except something?
Um, because it's lightweight. It's a lighter weight hoodie. Can we?
Did it might be a zip-up as the Hawaiian version? Wait, why would someone want a hoodie that's not gonna keep more?
It'll keep you a little bit warm because sometimes because you're going to you can't you know when you're sleeping
Or when you're trying to go sleep at night, right?
And then you put the covers on your like tank. I'm too hot. You take the covers off. Oh, it's like too cold
So you gotta get in that little zone that you can't get into sometimes everyone's in a while. It's like that
So sometimes in life. It's like that. Okay
Guaward in this can we make ultra. I want the heaviest possible weight that they make in the in America
This is what we need to get with Pete. No, and we're gonna straight up your doubt fabricate even whatever even
Yeah, even when you talk to Pete like let me get the samples. I want him in my hands
I want to feel the weight
Not playing around with this Hawaiian
Love Hawaii as you know it's my whole land, but I'm not down with the Hawaiian sweatshirts. Hey, so
Wow
Where are you gonna wear a heavy heavy hoodie not here? You're talking when you go to Montana
Yeah, or something like this Montana Michigan
Yeah, Boston
It's not even here. Yeah
It gets cold the morning here. Okay. How old?
33 degrees
How many?
36 degrees 38 degrees go surf in the morning sometime with me. I see what's up
I'm not aware of hoodie. Yeah, first no, you wear it too. Go surf go surf
All right. Hey. I'm gonna take your word for that and actually I have a heavy hoodie. I think you have a like a super ultra
And I only wear it when it's
unreasonably cold in my opinion. I'm gonna use like
50 five either way
Boom that's what I'm gonna do the summer one. You know what I think this is what I
Predict I predict people like telling yeah, I think so very much actually
Okay, we'll see we'll check your fashion sense
Which I have none so we go with it. Oh, hey also subscribe to the podcast iTunes Google Play Stitcher
Spotify someone just told me Spotify on your podcast on Spotify
We can fast forward without having a subscription or something like that so
We're just on Spotify just full on
Whatever. Oh good and also leave if you want to leave a review give us some feedback that's cool and you can do like one dude did
Who put an umel out over every oh?
In his review so obviously
Yeah
Cool
Yeah, yeah the YouTube the thing about YouTube is
Echo makes he's not gonna say this because he's super humble right
Nobody makes the the the the
Enhanced videos
Which are legit and
If you want to watch him you gotta go there and he seems to be putting up more and more excerpts of
Little videos little clips of the podcast so you can
Share them shareable. Yeah. It was not some like lunch thing called a shareable
I think that was a lunchable. Oh, okay. Yeah. Sorry. Yes. I'm not sure. No, no. I'll get ready in a minute. You know you kind of knew but yeah
Very good to much job
Yeah, oh, yes, very sure by try to you
Choose or put up the ones that I think
Applied all of us in one way or now there's so many times like people will say hey this is just on time right here
This little message because they were thinking this or something like that because they're placed all of a sudden
Bro one of our bros that's kind of uh, you know, we're not super tight but we're we're we're now
He came out to me me he was like hey man
He went through a little rough patch with uh with a female yes and he went through the whole breakup scenario
He was like I watched every day of a hundred times the breakup one yep. Yeah
Yeah, like you said you happen to put that out there and he happened to somebody somebody
One of our other friends sent it to him like hey check this out and he was like oh, okay
Got it now he's moving on. Yeah, yeah, and it's way simpler and more effective
I mean in the scenario like that we're rather than said me hey remember that episode with that in it
It's like two to and a half hours long. Hey re uh watch
I have time stamp this and there's a good message
I have a two-pot. I'm gonna do all that, you know, but it's just extra
You just made it sound like it's all laziness not necessarily laziness
You know, yeah, like there's
Sometimes there's some nuggets that just need to be put out there to the world yeah
And it's not just because you didn't want some people don't have time to listen to yeah
That's what I mean. Just you know
Yeah, man jockel McNuggets
Also good way to support is on it dot com slash jockel could fitness stuff on there
I just got some um, you know what you know what I got
Elk bacon elk you know like warrior bars. They're warrior bars and bacon. I think they're brand new
Did you get the standard yep? They said about so good so good yeah, you know what I have for you too
Is I have a mace for you
I have a 20 pound mace that I've been hoarding at my house and I apologize, but I owe it to you
I'll bring it next time
So cute because they're they're you know what I use those four people. So what do you do with those?
Basically I swung them around like a maniac psycho barbarian with a battle axe. Yeah, but they're a little shorter
But they're heavy and I put it into my I'll put it into my
Routine let's say routine because that's every day. I put it into a workout
Almost as like a little mobility slash cardio slash something break it's it's a good tool to have it's a good tool to have
I got you you think the 20 pounder the 20 pounder looks light when I give it to you can be like oh
I'm gonna you know it's it's heavy will consider aside from a 20 pound weight like what weighs 20 pounds nothing
You huge things TV or something like this like you yeah, and then you see a mace
I have a how long it's not gonna as long as you show it's probably might might not even be too
Feet long yeah, it's 20 pounds one tea pounds. Yeah, so you're your eyes and you're brain and your body kind of like
There's kind of miscalculating you know by observation you pick it up. You're like dang this thing is heavy
Yeah, yeah, so do it. Yeah, actually that's perfect. I go walk down this canyon right outside my house
This is canyon and I always feel like I want to carry something
This thing actually if you had it as a weapon it would not be effective. It's too heavy. Yeah, it's like that
That's how heavy it is it'd be cool to carry and I'm sure if you had a blood into someone to death with it
You could serve if you'd mind it
But it would be not an ideal weapon to get some outmine which is like the big threat here when you're working in the canyon behind your house
You know you get the mountain lion you're gonna rear that
Mesa that they got to buy the neck
Actually it's more just to get usually all grab like a thin stick just it's just to kind of have and yeah, it's just fun, you know
Yeah, but I'll be saw it. Yeah, I'm looking for it to go on but hey that elk
Uh, I don't even know if they call it a worry bar, but it's elk bacon. Yeah, there's a 21
Grimes of protein in that 21 that's good and it's one of those things that can kind of keep you on the path if you're in the mood for a little sum
100% kind of like psychological warfare the album
You get that on well you can get it on iTunes Google play MP3
It's a little album talking about how to stay on the path that's all get some yeah, well actually in the spirit of
meticulous accuracy it'll
Help you it's an album about telling you why and how you should stand the path in those moments of weakness when you kind of feel
Actually it's not when you feel like getting off the path the path it's when you don't feel like staying on that path for that moment
This will get you right back up 100% affecting the jocca willink is the artist
Yes, right yeah get it on Amazon iTunes wherever you get MP3's that's where you get it also
Jocco wait tea
Dry tea and in a can by the way, so the dry tea here's thing I didn't know this so I'm gonna say it but and I know a lot of people can be like
And fool oh, I have the dog already knew that remember like we're saying earlier, but dry tea dry tea is like the actual one
You got a brew oh, this is tea bags then yes, we're like that yeah like in a bag or whatever the jocca way
Tea comes in a tea bag wait can you have it like what do you call that loose loose
We do not have loose loose but that's not at this time dry you know for the seven people out there that want loose leaf
passionately I feel you I feel you and I just had a woman other day that was like hey
I really want loose leaf teen. I was like oh, that's awesome and there's six other of you that want that
Sure and as we grow eventually we'll do loose leaf for the purists right for the purists that want to
Deal with that you know that have the time to deal with that so right now no loose leaf you got to go with the tea bag or
In a can which strangely I am the opposite I don't know if I'd be considered opposite of the loose leaf
Articins but the can I pound weem more of the can then the didn't because I don't like brew it
Yeah, but they can't all I'm popping them every day surprisingly too because I don't you know how you how there's tea drinkers
Technically whatever I'm not a tea drinker. This is what I think is gonna be interesting
It tastes really good. Yes. It makes you feel really good. It's a refreshing
Right? It's just got that thing that just like is good. Right. Okay. I think I think
Get one of the standard energy drinks. They're filled with sugar
They should and they they got everything in there to make them taste good. That's what they're set up for and they got the caffeine
That's gonna make you feel good and all this stuff
as good as those things are
The the darkway tea is it's better it's it's it's like if you had the choice of one of the two like let's okay
Let's be real. I'm gonna be real here with you right now for a second sure if I had the choice between like a salad and
A mint chocolate chip ice cream milkshake
If I had to spill my heart
Spill your right now. I'd be like if you put those two in front of me
Nine times out of ten
I'm gonna get the mint chocolate chip milkshake occasionally. I'll be like okay. I'll have the salad because I'm really in the mood for that
But nine times out of the ten like I'm just gonna go with what you know
Which is that mint chocolate chip milkshake is good?
With this nine times out of the ten
You're actually gonna get chocolate tea. You're not gonna take the thing you're not gonna get the thing that's been engineered to be like
Attack your taste buds and make them massage and feel good. Yeah, and you know and you know
I think it's just obviously an assumption but when you get like okay you have a chocolate tea in a can
Then you have a standard energy drink the standard energy drink
I think the taste is more of a secondary thing when they make it. It's more like you know
Get you and like the caffeine and then the whatever but they make that stuff taste good. They try to yes
But that's secondary. That's why like it brought taste to energy drink. It's like okay, you know all the taste
I'll get taste good but it's like it can be in a quiet taste kind of weird to be honest with you
And that's a good point with this. It's like how you say I don't want to overuse the word refreshing
Don't want to do that. What what I was just gonna say is in order to not overuse that word
Have you ever okay? Remember when you were kid and you were doing something you're all hot
Sweaty tired like it's hot outside and you're thirsty and so you're you get a gatorade
And you drink the gatorade and when you get down to gatorade you're still thirsty because it's got whatever
It hasn't it that doesn't taste like water. It's like too far away from water
When you when you drink the tea it's like an actual it actually satisfies the actual first
Yes, it does yeah, because it's sweet. It's super mild. It is mild but it does have a weird kind of
I mean I don't want to overstate this but it's like this crispy kind of feeling it could be the can
It could be the can I don't know you know you drink the life of a guy man
I get the same thing so how's this so two occasions is legitimate and recent that's why so two occasion one time
My husband can sick oh sick or straight up sick and
I was feeling like oh you know I took I was sick to the point where I got to take like one of these you know
I don't know night quick night. Well, it's like Tylenol you know the liquid one the little the red
And I've perhaps been so long since I took anything like that so I was like I don't know how much you take
Let me so I put it in a little shot glass that I had and I just pound it apparently it was too much
So I'm like oh my jammed up super jammed up like super nauseous head on messed up like oh
Couldn't like think that could that was messed up and we had to record that day
So this was earlier like in the morning and then so I'm like shoot
I'm hoping off this thing. I just kind of laid out on whatever and I probably wasn't off it when I came in and recorded
I was like man, I'm like super nauseous. I'm not feeling good
So I tried to drink like some a caffeine thing to kind of probably didn't help you. It was messing me up
So I grabbed one of these and instantly no not the kind like I drank some and then I ended up feeling better
It was like I drank it else a day
Instantly felt better so I was like you know could have been a timing thing whatever and no 100% full credit goes
Yeah, 100% but the thing is that's what I'm saying
I'm definitely bruised
Total addict though I realized but and then another time I drank I
Okay, so I'm
Like you like I do like coffee, you know for the for the the caffeine right in the morning whenever so that come across this coffee the
Brand will remain nameless, but it's 1.75 times almost two times the caffeine 200% it's
175% cash of the caffeine. That's a lot of caffeine
So I'm like hey, I'm gonna get this and you know if it's like too crazy
I'll just make less of it or drink less water down whatever so I make some first time it totally messes you up
Yeah, it puts you caffeine is like a curve where you want to hit it at the top of the wave
You know where it catches you if you drink too much it makes you feel jittery and then if you're really drink too much it
Makes you feel kind of sick in my experience this just regular the same amount of drink of regular coffee
It put me over into nausea immediately no like maybe the seed of belly dude
No, it wasn't like pain like how something it'll it's like it's in your head
You know it makes your head all weekly at whatever and
Something bad to mess up for this thing so the next day I'm like I'm not gonna drink that I was like no, you know what?
Oh water it down so water down boom same exact thing mess me up
And happen to be yet another day that we record
So I come in I'm like okay and I grab another one of these seeds again instantly like immediately
It didn't like oh help it where off later or whatever immediately made me feel better no nausea
I'm not saying this is an anti-najim medication
But I will tell you this you're just providing multiple examples of care at all diseases
Yeah, I will say that about the chocolate tea in a can or can by the way
Certified yes, sir, all right cool got some books
That I've written and you can get those on
Boy can you get them for books are sold. Yeah, that's what is not the best one the current one that I'm on right now
Me and my daughter will work it to Mark's mission actually she was very
Very very excited about that I think because you signed it too, but oh yeah, but yeah, that's a good one
And she happened to be you know in the beginning the paper mache
Yeah, Bob can yeah, she was really into that by the way, but she has a situation where one of the girls in her
classes like
She's not a teaser necessarily, but she's just bossy. You know you got to ditch just
I deal with people I get a lot of warrior kid podcast questions about bossy kids. Yeah, and it yeah, and it makes sense
But she yeah, she's she's all on that yeah, and so that's another thing worth mentioning
Is there's the warrior kid books
Two of them way the warrior kid and Mark's mission and there's also warrior kid
Podcasts called warrior kid podcast and ask uncle Jake
So you can check that one out. There's also the discipline equals freedom field manual
Which tells you how to get after it
Very clearly and if you want to
Get it on audio the only way you can get it on the audio is as an MP3 album or you can buy individual tracks if you want them
iTunes Amazon music Google play et cetera
Yeah, also extreme ownership this
The
Red deans all the original right?
Immunisher no, this is the second version now. Yeah
It's like any enhanced version. Yeah, there's clips there's sections from the pop from this podcast in the new extreme ownership
Yeah, that's the when they come out when they really release a book
They want to add a little spice to it. Yeah, makes it so the spice is the podcast actually. Yeah, it's pretty cool
So extreme ownership book sprinkled with podcast. Yes, spice spicy podcast. Yes, yeah
Um, good one simple but not easy now one but if you can assimilate it legitimately
Life changing what's cool to me. Yeah, you know you just threw out life changing yes
Throughout there. No, I'm not the only one. No, that's what I'm saying
What's cool? What's cool is when people are pretty stoked about the impact that it's had on their personal life and on their business and on their family
And I hear people talking about that and they they come and talk to me about it and send me emails and everything else
It's awesome. So that's the book extreme ownership wrote it with my brother, Dave Babin and
Life and I just wrote another book
I kind of reference it a couple times today. It's called the dichotomy of leadership and
Life and I literally I keep saying we just get done writing it if you heard me say that on this podcast before
Yes, well, I have you know why because every time you edit you gotta edit it
So every time you think you're done you're not done and so we just turned in another series of edits and the edits are
It's not like we're going through these massive changes, but you just you just somebody changes something in a sentence and then it throws off this other thing and so just paint
the way
That's what that's what we're doing. Do you have the philosophy like mother? I forget who said it, but it's like editing is done when you can take away
No more yes, and then there's the other one. No, it's the opposite. Yes editing is done when you can't you can't
Every word matters and you know, you know, life and I live
Lave basically like I do like a thousand words a day and I edit the same way well
I edit you can edit faster, so I'll edit like one chapter at a time
But but then I'll do that one per day
Laves the opposite he just goes boom. He just goes and
Who called me at like midnight brought
For a little hard
Frate you down. I'm like that's awesome man, but yes, and then we edit each other and
So we're it takes a while so we just finished another series of edits and
Both of us are so life sent me a text the other days. I broke this book this book is awesome
It is actually oh, that's right because you have a little little taste of it
That's yeah, yeah, so it is I think it's really gonna help people out and again
You can preorder that thing right now so that the publisher prints enough so that people can actually have them
Because the publishers don't ever get it and it does man it does help and I'm really I don't want to
I want to give it away any kind of spoil or nothing like that, but it does it makes like complete sense
Especially after extreme ownership where you know, so extreme
Ownership like and it kind of has this tone of extremeness which is it's all true and accurate
But I can see how like someone might not get that little element of like hey
It's extreme but it's more of like this approach to like this whole thing and that whole thing is this balance
Yes, you know like that economy of you yeah, I actually wrote in the book dichotomy leadership one of the
One of the problems with extreme ownership is the title extreme ownership because people think it got to be extreme
No, actually you need to you need to not be extreme most of the time as a leader
You need to be balanced now. Do you need to be extreme and you're attitude towards ownership?
Yes, you absolutely do but you need to be extreme and you're attitude of being aggressive
No because if you get too aggressive
You're gonna cause other problems
Yeah, yeah like extreme meaning like don't deviate from thinking like this kind of thing not like
When I go in I'm just owning everything no exceptions
What you say doesn't matter. This is my kind of kind of extreme. It's not that and then really the extremeness of the balance
It's almost like a contradictory thing, but it's all the parts that like I'm using it for a little something that
I have to do it, but you know anyway, I'm reading some of it
Yeah, and it's like man it makes it really clear. It's really good. Yeah, no, that's that's what life text me other than like yeah
Cause obviously we've been reading it a bunch and I think it's gonna really help people out
Really help people out. Okay, so that'll be good
And you know actually on top of the dichotomy of leadership
Speaking of leadership if you need leadership training on site for you or your team
You can check out Ashalan front
That's my leadership consulting company with life with JP with Dave
We got some other people coming on board right now, which is awesome awesome guys and what we do is we solve problems through leadership
That's what we do at Ashalan front Ashalan front dot com coming get some effectively
I feel like I'm kind of like this ongoing kind of
Ashalan front of you know of your consulting, you know just because I'm always kind of around yeah
You know yeah, so it's interesting how just by what he call it not Osmosis no it is Osmosis by being there kind of
Yeah, yeah your brain boom. Yeah, it's good
Also the mustard that's a big part look I'm essentially an ent attendie at the mustard with a camera with a camera
Which is even more so yeah because I get to rewatch it certain parts. Oh, yeah, you'll get to get up like move around get close
Yeah, outstanding time by the way and so yeah, there's a net there's another one
The the one the last one went to sold out once for that one sold out DC was pretty awesome. Yeah, I mean, and it was a beast what let me DC was awesome
It was just awesome being in DC and the mustard was a good time and
People learned a ton so yeah sold out again. Yeah all of them sold out yeah and
So it's reasonable as you always say to believe that this next one is gonna sell out
Oh the next one's gonna sell out. Yeah, yeah, they're definitely gonna sell out. It's a
San Francisco mustard 0 0 6 October 17th and 18th it's absolutely gonna sell out so if you want to come
Register the other thing that happens is you book hotel rooms, you know because those things get bought bought up too
so
Yeah, it's it's a leadership seminar
We talk about leadership and it's not just talking about leadership. We actually give you the pragmatic tools
That you need to take home and become a better leader
business in your life. I was watching this I was watching TV the other day
Because my kids were watching TV wasn't my choice by the way by the last I'm watching TV and I see a little
You know the commercial it's almost it's a local like come or you know how the commercial like like one commercial kind of starts then it goes to the local
Commercial you know that situation you know that happens so anyway it's for this seminar
You know for I don't I forget maybe real estate or whatever you know cool cool info whatever and you know
How in the video they show you know like clips from the actual seminar that they held last time or something like a pro
I'm gonna end then you can't help but compare it to like the mustard situation and it's like man night and day
You know, I'm the one this cool looks like people getting good information but Pro. It's just way different
Yeah, this is no it's um that's why that's why they're all selling out. Yeah, that's why people are people coming back
So there's that added element where they kind of get to hang with you guys. Oh, yeah, yeah, that's right
There's no green room. There's gonna be a kind of such actually the last one there was literally no backstage
Like there was no place you we were just out front without front the whole time
The whole team not that you would even need it because you kind of you don't go back there. No, can't kind of can't no green room
Even when you say there's a break there's already a line. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's kind of formula okay because you'll mean you get questions
Everyone ask questions in between and sign books and hang out and take pictures and all that stuff. That's what we do
the whole time yeah
let's not come into the raw the same hotel
Lafe LAmized
9 pounds during the mustard be two seven really
Yeah, that's what we're doing. We're just and there's no time to eat like like
We literally don't eat you don't eat because you, I mean we don't you can eat as a as a a
as a attendee you can eat but that may be the boys we don't have time to eat we're
working and so yeah also for current military law enforcement board or patrol fire fighters
paramedics first responders we got the role call September 21st in Dallas Texas it's
uh...
like a really focused one-day leadership training seminar aimed at people that put on a
uniform and deal with dynamic situations and that's also available to register
at extremist ship dot com and until we see you live
and in person either at the muster
in san francisco or the role call in Texas or the immersion camp up in main
if you want to
if you want to hang out with us virtually
we are hanging out actually
on the interwebs echo is
at echo Charles and i am at jockel willink into all the service men and women out there
in the world thank you for protecting our nation and to the police law enforcement
firefighters paramedics border patrol
thanks for keeping us safe here at home and to the families of all those that serve
thank you for supporting
those heroes that support us
and to everyone else that is listening
remember as we learned today
laziness is the shame of us all laziness
makes us prefer the easy path
the weak path
instead of glory
do not allow that instead take the hard path
take the discipline path take the war path
the path
of getting after it
until next time
this is echo and jockel
out